.TH FLIST %manext1% 1999-04-30 "%nmhversion%"
.
.\" %nmhwarning%
.
.SH NAME
flist, flists \- list the number of nmh messages in given sequences
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B flist
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RI [ +folder1
.RI [ +folder2
\&...]]
.RB [ \-sequence
.I name1
.RB [ \-sequence
.I name2
\&...]]
.RB [ \-all " | " \-noall ]
.RB [ \-showzero " | " \-noshowzero ]
.RB [ \-recurse " | " \-norecurse ]
.RB [ \-fast " | " \-nofast ]
.RB [ \-alpha " | " \-noalpha ]
.PP
.HP 5
.B flists
is equivalent to
.B flist
.B \-all
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B flist
is used to search a list of folders and display the number
of messages in these folders that are in a given sequence or set of
sequences (for example the
.RI \*(lq unseen \*(rq
sequence).  This is especially
useful if you use some mechanism such as
.B slocal
or
.B procmail
(typically in conjunction with
.BR rcvstore )
to pre-sort your mail into different folders before you view it.
.PP
By default, the command
.B flist
will search the current folder for the given sequence or sequences (usually
.RI \*(lq unseen \*(rq).
If (possibly multiple) folders are specified on the command line with
.IR +folder ,
then all these folders are searched for the given sequence(s).
.B flist
will display for each folder searched, the number of messages in each of the
specified sequences, and the total number of messages.
.PP
The
.B \-sequence
switch specifies the sequence to which messages should belong.
This switch may be given multiple times to specify multiple sequences.
If it is not given, then the default is to search
for all the sequences specified by the
.RI \*(lq Unseen-Sequence \*(rq
profile component.  For more details about sequences, read
.IR mh\-sequence (5).
.PP
Typically,
.B flist
will produce a line for each sequence, for every folder that is searched,
even those which do not contain any messages in the given sequence.
Specifying
.B \-noshowzero
will cause
.B flist
to print only those folder/sequence combinations where the folder has a
non-zero number of messages in the given sequence.
.PP
If
.B \-recurse
is given, then for each folder that is searched,
.B flist
will also recursively descend into those folders to search subfolders
for the given sequence.
.PP
If
.B \-fast
is given, only the names of the folders searched will be displayed, and
.B flist
will suppress all other output.  If this option is used in conjunction with
.BR \-noshowzero ,
then
.B flist
will only print the names of those folders searched that contain messages in
in at least one of the specified sequences.
.SS "Multiple Folders"
If the
.B \-all
switch is given (and no folders are specified with
.IR +folder ),
then
.B flist
will search all the folders in the top
level of the users nmh directory.  These folders are all preceded by
the read-only folders, which occur as
.RI \*(lq atr\-cur\- \*(rq
entries in the user's
.B nmh
context.
.PP
An example of the output of
.B flist
.B \-all
is:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
/work/Mail  has  5 in sequence unseen (private); out of  46
inbox+      has 10 in sequence unseen          ; out of 153
junklist    has  0 in sequence unseen          ; out of  63
postmaster  has  1 in sequence unseen          ; out of   3
.fi
.RE
.PP
The \*(lq+\*(rq after
.I inbox
indicates that it is the current folder.
.PP
The \*(lqprivate\*(rq flag indicates that the given sequence for
that folder is private.  See
.IR mh\-sequence (5)
for details about private sequences.
.PP
If the option
.B \-all
and
.I +folder
are both specified, then
.B flist
will search this folder, and all its first level subfolders for the
given sequence.  You may specify multiple folders in this way.
.PP
If
.B flist
is invoked by a name ending with \*(lqs\*(rq
(e.g.
.BR flists ),
then the switch
.B \-all
is assumed by default.
.PP
The sorting order for the listing is alphabetical (with
.BR \-alpha ),
or in a priority order defined by the
.RI \*(lq Flist-Order \*(rq
profile entry (with
.BR \-noalpha ).
Each item in the
.RI \*(lq Flist-Order \*(rq
is a folder name or a
folder name pattern that uses * to match zero or more characters.
Longer matching patterns have precedence over shorter matching patterns.
For example:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
Flist-Order: personal petproject mh* * admin *junk
.fi
.RE
.PP
This order puts a few interesting folders first, such as those with mail
addressed to you personally, those about a pet project, and those about
mh-related things.  It places uninteresting folders at the end, and it
puts everything else in the middle in alphabetical order.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
$HOME/.mh_profile
The user's profile.
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.PD 0
.TP 20
Path:
To determine the user's nmh directory.
.TP
mh-sequences:
File that contains public sequences.
.TP
Unseen-Sequence:
The name of the unseen message sequence.
.TP
Flist-Order:
To sort folders by priority.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR folder (1),
.IR rcvstore (1),
.IR slocal (1),
.IR mh\-sequence (5)
.SH DEFAULTS
.PD 0
.TP 20
-sequence
The Unseen-Sequence profile entry.
.TP
\-showzero
.TP
\-noall
.TP
\-norecurse
.TP
\-noalpha
.TP
\-nofast
.PD
.SH CONTEXT
If
.I +folder
is given, it will become the current folder.
If multiple folders are given, the last one specified will
become the current folder.
