.TH FMTTEST %manext1% "February 19, 2013" "%nmhversion%"
.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\"
.SH FMTTEST
fmttest \- test tool for the
.IR mh-format (5)
language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B fmttest
.RB [ \-form
.IR formatfile ]
.RB [ \-format
.IR formatstring ]
.RB [ \-address " | " \-raw " | " \-date " | " \-message ]
.RB [ \-\|\-component
.IR component-text ]
.RB [ \-dupaddrs " | " \-nodupaddrs ]
.RB [ \-ccme " | " \-noccme ]
.RB [ \-normalize " | " \-nonormalize ]
.RB [ \-outsize
.IR size-in-characters ]
.RB [ \-bufsize
.IR size-in-bytes ]
.RB [ \-width
.IR column-width ]
.RB [ \-msgnum
.IR number ]
.RB [ \-msgcur
.IR flag ]
.RB [ \-msgsize
.IR size ]
.RB [ \-unseen
.IR flag ]
.RB [ \-dump " | " \-nodump ]
.RB [ \-trace " | " \-notrace ]
.RI [ +folder ]
.RI [ msgs " | " strings ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Fmttest
is used to test programs written for the
.B nmh
format language as specified by
.IR mh-format (5).
It is also intended to replace the
.BR ap ,
.BR dp ,
and
.B fmtdump
programs.
.PP
.SS FORMAT PROGRAM SELECTION
The
.B \-format
.I string
and
.B \-form
.I formatfile
switches may be used to specify a format string or a format file to read.
If given a format string, it must be specified as a single argument to
the
.B \-format
switch.  If given a format file name with
.BR \-form ,
the file is searched for using the normal
.B nmh
rules: absolute pathnames are accessed directly, tilde expansion is
done on usernames, and files are searched for in the user's
.I Mail
directory as specified in their profile.  If not found there, the directory
.RI \*(lq %etcdir% \*(rq
is checked.
.SS MODE SELECTION AND COMPONENT SPECIFICATION
.B Fmttest
has four operating modes: address mode, raw mode, date mode, and message
mode.  These modes are selected by the
.BR \-address ,
.BR \-raw ,
.BR \-date ,
and
.B \-message
switches respectively.
.PP
Address mode treats every argument as an email address and processes it
with nmh's email parser.  Each argument is processed with the specified
format program with the parsed email address available as a special
.RI %{ text }
component escape, and the output from the program is printed on standard output.
If there was an error parsing the email address the error message is
stored in the
.RI %{ error }
component escape.  If no format program is given on the command line, the
following default program is used:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
%<{error}%{error}: %{text}%|%(putstr(proper{text}))%>
.fi
.RE
.PP
In this mode
.B fmttest
is equivalent to
.IR ap (8).
.PP
In raw mode, no processing of the specified arguments is done.  Each argument
is run against the specified format program with the argument text available
in the
.RI %{ text }
component.  You must specify a format with
.B \-form
or
.B \-format
when using raw mode.
.PP
Date mode is identical to raw mode, with one exception: if no format is
specified, the following format string is used:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
%<(nodate{text})error: %{text}%|%(putstr(pretty{text}))%>
.fi
.RE
.PP
Date mode is equivalent to
.IR dp (8).
.PP
In message mode the arguments to
.B fmttest
are interpreted as an optional folder and messages.
.B Fmttest
will read each specified message and make all of the components in the
message available to the format program.  Also, the appropriate information
for the
.RI %( msg ),
.RI %( cur ),
.RI %( unseen ),
and
.RI %( size )
function escapes will be made available for each message.
.PP
The default format used in address mode is the default format used by
.BR scan .
The following command can replicate the functionality of the
.B repl
command.
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
fmttest \-nodupaddrs \-form replcomps \-outsize max [+folder] message
.fi
.RE
.PP
Regardless of the mode, other components can be provided to the format
program by the use of the
.B \-\|\-component
switch.  For example, the following program will test out the use of
the
.RB \*(lq encrypted \*(rq
component:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
fmttest \-\|\-encrypted yes \-message cur
.fi
.RE
.PP
In message mode components supplied on the command line will override
components from messages.
.SS ADDITIONAL SWITCHES
The
.B \-dupaddrs
and
.B \-nodupaddrs
switches control whether duplicate addresses are allowed or suppressed by the
.B FORMATADDR
instruction, which is used by the
.RI `%( formataddr )'
function escape.  In normal operation duplicate addresses are only
suppressed by
.BR repl .
.PP
The
.B \-ccme
and
.B \-noccme
switches control whether or not to count the user's local mailbox as a
duplicate address.  This replicates the behavior of the
.B \-cc
.I me
switch to
.BR repl ,
and only applies if
.B \-nodupaddrs
is in effect.
.PP
The
.B \-normalize
and
.B \-nonormalize
switches control whether or not email addresses are normalized by the
address parsing routines.  This is only functional when in address
mode and is designed to replicate the switch of the same name to
.IR ap (8).
.PP
The
.B \-outsize
switch controls the maximum number of printable characters that the format
engine will produce.  Characters marked as non-printing by the format
engine with
.RI `%( zputlit )',
characters with zero width, and extra bytes that are
part of a multibyte character are not counted against this total.
Two special values are supported:
.RI \*(lq max \*(rq,
which will set the value
to the size of the output buffer, and
.RI \*(lq width \*(rq,
which will set the
value to the width of the terminal.  In message mode it defaults to the
terminal width, otherwise the default is the output buffer size.
.PP
The
.B \-bufsize
switch controls the size of the output buffer.  By default it is set
to the size of the
.B BUFSIZ
C preprocessor symbol, which is system-dependent.
.PP
The
.B \-width
switch controls the column width which is used by the
.RI `%( width )'
function escape.  By default is set to the terminal width.
.PP
The
.BR \-msgnum ,
.BR \-msgcur ,
.BR \-msgsize ,
and the
.B \-unseen
switches all control the values used, respectively, by the following
function escapes:
.RI `%( num )',
.RI `%( cur )',
.RI `%( size )',
and
.RI `%( unseen )'.
If none are supplied these values are taken from the message in message mode;
in all other modes the default values are 0.
.SS COMPILING AND TRACING FORMAT PROGRAMS
The
.B \-dump
switch outputs the complete set of format instructions for the specified
format program.  The
.B \-trace
switch will output each format instruction as it is being
executed, and show the values of the
.I num
and
.I str
registers if they have changed from the previous instruction.
The output buffer is also printed if it has changed from the previous
instruction.
.SS FORMAT INSTRUCTIONS
It should be noted that there is not a one-to-one correspondence between
format escapes and format instructions; many instructions have side
effects.  Instructions prefixed with
.RI \*(lq LV \*(rq
generally return a integer into the
.I num
(value) register; instructions prefixed with a
.RI \*(lq LS \*(rq
return a string into the
.I str
register.
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'LS_DECODECOMP 'u
.I "Instruction	Description"
COMP	Output component
COMPF	Formatted output component
LIT	Output literal text
LITF	Formatted literal text output
CHAR	Output single character
NUM	Output the \fInum\fR register
NUMF	Formatted output of the \fInum\fR register
STR	Output the \fIstr\fR register
STRF	Formatted output of the \fIstr\fR register
STRFW	Not used
PUTADDR	Output address list in \fIstr\fR register
STRLIT	Output \fIstr\fR, no space compression
STRLITZ	Like \fBSTRLIT\fR, but not counted against width
LS_COMP	Write component to \fIstr\fR register
LS_LIT	Write literal to \fIstr\fR register
LS_GETENV	Write environment var to \fIstr\fR register
LS_DECODECOMP	Decode RFC-2047 encoded component to \fIstr\fR register
LS_DECODE	Decode RFC-2047 encoded string to \fIstr\fR register
LS_TRIM		Trim trailing whitespace from \fIstr\fR register
LV_COMP		Convert component to integer, store in \fInum\fR register
LV_COMPFLAG	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fBTRUE\fR set in component
LV_LIT	Load literal value into \fInum\fR register
LV_DAT	Load value from \fIdat\fR array into \fInum\fR register (see note)
LV_STRLEN	Set \fInum\fR to the length of \fIstr\fR
LV_PLUS_L	Add value to \fInum\fR register
LV_MINUS_L	Substract value from \fInum\fR register
LV_DIVIDE_L	Divide \fInum\fR register by value
LV_MODULO_L	\fInum\fR modulo value
LV_CHAR_LEFT	Store remaining number of printable chars in \fInum\fR
LS_MONTH	Write short name of month to \fIstr\fR from date component
LS_LMONTH	Write long name of month to \fIstr\fR from date component
LS_ZONE		Write time zone offset to \fIstr\fR from date component
LS_DAY		Write short name of day of week to \fIstr\fR from date component
LS_WEEKDAY	Write long name of day of week to \fIstr\fR from date component
LS_822DATE	Write RFC-822 compatible date to \fIstr\fR from date component
LS_PRETTY	Write date with \*(lqpretty\*(rq timezone to \fIstr\fR
LV_SEC	Write date component seconds to \fInum\fR
LV_MIN	Write date component minutes to \fInum\fR
LV_HOUR	Write date component hour to \fInum\fR
LV_MON	Write date component numeric month to \fInum\fR (start at 1)
LV_YEAR	Write date component year to \fInum\fR
LV_YDAY	Write date component Julian day to \fInum\fR
LV_WDAY	Write date component day of week to \fInum\fR (0 == Sunday)
LV_ZONE	Write date component time zone offset to \fInum\fR
LV_CLOCK	Write date component in Unix epoch time to \fInum\fR
LV_RCLOCK	Write offset of date component from current time to \fInum\fR
LV_DAYF	Write 1 to \fInum\fR if day of week is explicit
LV_DST	Write 1 to \fInum\fR if DST is in effect for date component
LV_ZONEF	Write 1 to \fInum\fR if timezone is explicit
LS_ADDR	Write email address of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_PERS	Write personal name of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_MBOX	Write mailbox (username) of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_HOST	Write host of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_PATH	Write host route of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_GNAME	Write group name of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_NOTE	Write note portion of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_822ADDR	Write \*(lqproper\*(rq RFC-822 version of addr component to \fIstr\fR
LS_FRIENDLY	Write friendly (name or note) of address component to \fIstr\fR
LS_UNQUOTE	Remove RFC-2822 quotes from string
LV_HOSTTYPE	Set \fInum\fR to type of host (0=local, 1=network)
LV_INGRPF	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if address was inside of group
LV_NOHOSTF	Set \fInum\fR to 1 of no host was present in address component
LOCALDATE	Convert date component to local timezone
GMTDATE	Convert date component to GMT
PARSEDATE	Parse date component
PARSEADDR	Parse address component
FORMATADDR	Add address component to list in \fIstr\fR
CONCATADDR	Like \fBFORMATADDR\fR, but will not suppress duplicates
MYMBOX	Set \fInum\fR if address component is a local address
SAVESTR		Save \fIstr\fR register temporarily
DONE	End program
NOP	No operation
GOTO	Jump to new instruction
IF_S_NULL	Branch if \fIstr\fR is \fBNULL\fR
IF_S	Branch if \fIstr\fR is not \fBNULL\fR
IF_V_EQ	Branch if \fInum\fR is equal to value
IF_V_NE	Branch if \fInum\fR is not equal to value
IF_V_GT	Branch if \fInum\fR is greater than value
IF_MATCH	Branch if \fIstr\fR contains string
IF_AMATCH	Branch if \fIstr\fR starts with string
S_NULL	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fIstr\fR is \fBNULL\fR
S_NONNULL	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fIstr\fR is not \fBNULL\fR
V_EQ	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fInum\fR equals value
V_NE	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fInum\fR does not equal value
V_GT	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fInum\fR is greater than value
V_MATCH	Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fIstr\fR contains string
V_AMATCH Set \fInum\fR to 1 if \fIstr\fR starts with string
.fi
.PP
The
.B LV_DAT
instruction is a bit special.  Callers of the format library pass in an
array of integers that are used by certain format escapes.  The current
list of format escapes and the indexes they use are:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'dat[5]\0\0'u
dat[0]	%(\fInum\fR)
dat[1]	%(\fIcur\fR)
dat[2]	%(\fIsize\fR)
dat[3]	%(\fIwidth\fR)
dat[4]	%(\fIunseen\fR)
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mh-format (5),
.IR repl (1),
.IR ap (8),
.IR dp (8),
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` \-message '
.RB ` \-dupaddrs '
.fi
.SH BUGS
It shouldn't require as much code from other programs as it does.
