.TH FORW %manext1% "October 10, 2016" "%nmhversion%"
.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\"
.SH NAME
forw \- forward messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B forw
.RI [ +folder ]
.RI [ msgs ]
.RB [ \-annotate " | " \-noannotate ]
.RB [ \-form
.IR formfile ]
.RB [ \-format " | " \-noformat ]
.RB [ \-filter
.IR filterfile ]
.RB [ \-inplace " | " \-noinplace ]
.RB [ \-mime " | " \-nomime ]
.RB [ \-draftfolder
.IR +folder ]
.RB [ \-draftmessage
.IR msg ]
.RB [ \-nodraftfolder ]
.RB [ \-editor
.IR editor ]
.RB [ \-noedit ]
.RB [ \-width
.IR colums ]
.RB [ \-from
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-to
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-cc
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-fcc
.IR +folder ]
.RB [ \-subject
.IR text ]
.RB [ \-whatnowproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-nowhatnowproc ]
.RB [ \-dashstuffing " | " \-nodashstuffing ]
.RB [ \-build ]
.RB [ \-file
.IR msgfile ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.PP
.HP 5
.B forw
.RI [ +folder ]
.RI [ msgs ]
.RB [ \-digest
.IR list ]
.RB [ \-issue
.IR number ]
.RB [ \-volume
.IR number ]
[other\ switches\ for\ 
.BR forw ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Forw
may be used to prepare a message containing other messages.
.PP
It constructs the new message from a forms (components) file, with a
body composed of the message(s) to be forwarded.  An editor is invoked
as in
.BR comp ,
and after editing is complete, the user is prompted
before the message is sent.
.PP
The default message template will direct
.B forw
to construct the draft as follows:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
From: {from switch} or <Local-Mailbox> or <username@hostname>
To: {to switch} or blank
Fcc: {fcc switch} or +outbox
Subject: {subject switch} or "{original subject} (fwd)"
--------
.fi
.RE
.PP
If a file named
.RI \*(lq forwcomps \*(rq
exists in the user's nmh directory,
it will be used instead of this default form.  You may also specify an
alternate forms file with the switch
.B \-form
.IR formfile .
Forms are processed via the
.B nmh
template system; see
.IR mh\-format (5)
for details.  Components from the first forwarded message are available
as standard component escapes in the forms file.
.PP
In addition to the standard
.IR mh\-format (5)
escapes, the following
.I component
escapes are also supported:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'nmh\-subject	'u +\w'Returns	'u
.I "Escape	Returns	Description"
fcc	string	Any folders specified with `\-fcc\ folder'
nmh\-from	string	Addresses specified with `\-from\ address'
nmh\-to	string	Addresses specified with `\-to\ address'
nmh\-cc	string	Addresses specified with `\-cc\ address'
nmh\-subject	string	Any text specified with `\-subject\ text'
.fi
.RE
.PP
By default the \*(lqTo:\*(rq and \*(lqcc:\*(rq fields are empty.  You may
add addresses to these fields with the
.B \-to
.I address
and
.B \-cc
.I address
switches.  You may give these switches multiple times to add multiple
addresses.
.PP
By default the \*(lqFrom:\*(rq field has either the value of the
.B Local\-Mailbox
profile entry a system default email address.  This default can be overridden
by using the
.B \-from
.I address
switch.  The default mailbox in the \*(lqFcc:\*(rq field is
.IR +outbox .
This can be overridden by the
.B \-fcc
switch.
.PP
Any text you give to the
.B \-subject
switch will be placed in the \*(lqSubject:\*(rq field in the draft.
.PP
If the draft already exists,
.B forw
will ask you as to the disposition
of the draft.  A reply of
.B quit
will abort
.BR forw ,
leaving the draft intact;
.B replace
will replace the existing draft with a blank skeleton; and
.B list
will display the draft.
.PP
If the
.B \-annotate
switch is given, each message being forwarded will
be annotated with the lines:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
Forwarded:\ date
Forwarded:\ addrs
.fi
.RE
.PP
where each address list contains as many lines as required.  This
annotation will be done only if the message is sent directly from
.BR forw .
If the message is not sent immediately from
.BR forw ,
.RB \*(lq comp
.BR \-use \*(rq
may be used to re\-edit and send the constructed
message, but the annotations won't take place.  Normally annotations
are done inplace in order to preserve any links to the message.  You may
change this by using the
.B \-noinplace
switch.
.PP
See
.IR comp (1)
for a description of the
.B \-editor
and
.B \-noedit
switches.
.PP
Although
.B forw
uses a forms (components) file to direct it how to
construct the beginning of the draft, it uses a message filter file to
direct it as to how each forwarded message should be formatted in the
body of the draft.  The filter file for \fIforw\fR should be a standard
form file for
.BR mhl ,
as
.B forw
will invoke
.B mhl
to filter (re\-format) the forwarded messages prior to being output to
the body of the draft.
.PP
The switches
.BR \-noformat ,
.BR \-format ,
and
.B \-filter
.I filterfile
specify which message filter file to use.
.PP
If
.B \-noformat
is specified (this is the default), then each forwarded
message is output into the draft exactly as it appears with no
.B mhl
filtering.
.PP
If
.B \-format
is specified, then a default message filter file is used.
This default message filter should be adequate for most users.
This default filter
.RI \*(lq mhl.forward \*(rq
is:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
%mhl_forward%
.fi
.RE
.PP
If a file named
.RI \*(lq mhl.forward \*(rq
exists in the user's nmh
directory, it will be used instead of this form.  You may specify an
alternate message filter file with the switch
.B \-filter
.IR filterfile .
.PP
Each forwarded message is separated with an encapsulation delimiter.
By default, any dashes in the first column of the forwarded messages
will be prepended with `\-\ ' so that when received, the message is
suitable for bursting by
.BR burst .
This follows the Internet RFC 934 guidelines.  You may use the flag
.B \-nodashstuffing
in order
to suppress this form of quoting to the forwarded messages.
.PP
For users of
.BR prompter ,
by specifying
.BR prompter 's
.B \-prepend
switch in the
.I \&.mh\(ruprofile
file, any commentary text is entered
before the forwarded messages.  (A major win!)
.PP
To use the MIME rules for encapsulation, specify the
.B \-mime
switch.  This directs
.B forw
to generate an
.B mhbuild
composition file.  Note that
.B nmh
will not invoke
.B mhbuild
automatically; you must specifically give the command
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
What now? mime
.fi
.RE
.PP
prior to sending the draft.
.PP
The
.B \-draftfolder
.I +folder
and
.B \-draftmessage
.I msg
switches invoke the
.B nmh
draft folder facility.  This is an advanced (and highly
useful) feature.  Consult the
.IR mh-draft (5)
man page for more information.
.PP
The
.B \-editor
.I editor
switch indicates the editor to use for the
initial edit.  Upon exiting from the editor,
.B comp
will invoke the
.B whatnow
program.  See
.IR whatnow (1)
for a discussion of
available options.  The invocation of this program can be inhibited
by using the
.B \-nowhatnowproc
switch.  (In truth of fact, it is
the
.I whatnow
program which starts the initial edit.  Hence,
.B \-nowhatnowproc
will prevent any edit from occurring.)
.PP
The
.B \-build
switch is intended to be used by the Emacs mh-e interface to
.BR nmh .
It implies
.BR \-nowhatnowproc .
It causes a file <mh\-dir>/draft
to be created, containing the draft message that would normally be presented
to the user for editing.
No mail is actually sent.
.PP
The
.B \-file
.I msgfile
switch specifies the message to be forwarded as an
exact filename rather than as an
.B nmh
folder and message number.
This switch implies
.BR \-noannotate .
The forwarded message is simply
copied verbatim into the draft; the processing implied by
the
.BR \-filter ,
.BR \-mime ,
and
.B \-digest
switches is bypassed, and the usual leading and
trailing 'Forwarded Message' delimiters are not added.
The same caveats apply to this option as to the
.B \-build
switch.
.PP
The
.B \-digest
.IR list ,
.B \-issue
.IR number ,
and
.B \-volume
.I number
switches implement a digest facility for
.BR nmh .
Specifying these switches enables and/or overloads the following escapes:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'Component  'u +\w'Escape  'u +\w'Returns  'u
.I "Type	Escape	Returns	Description"
component	digest	string	Argument to `\-digest'
function	cur	integer	Argument to `\-volume'
function	msg	integer	Argument to `\-issue'
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH FILES
.B forw
looks for format and filter files in multiple locations: absolute
pathnames are accessed directly, tilde expansion is done on usernames,
and files are searched for in the user's
.I Mail
directory as specified in their profile.  If not found there, the directory
.RI \*(lq %nmhetcdir% \*(rq
is checked.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 25
%nmhetcdir%/forwcomps
The standard message skeleton.
.TP
<mh\-dir>/forwcomps
Rather than the standard skeleton.
.TP
%nmhetcdir%/digestcomps
The message skeleton if
.B \-digest
is given.
.TP
<mh\-dir>/digestcomps
Rather than the standard skeleton.
.TP
^%nmhetcdir%/mhl.forward
The standard message filter.
.TP
<mh\-dir>/mhl.forward
Rather than the standard filter.
.TP
^$HOME/.mh_profile
The user's profile.
.PD
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.PD 0
.TP 25
Path:
To determine the user's nmh directory.
.TP
Current\-Folder:
To find the default current folder.
.TP
Draft\-Folder:
To find the default draft\-folder.
.TP
Editor:
To override the default editor.
.TP
Msg\-Protect:
To set mode when creating a new message (draft).
.TP
fileproc:
Program to refile the message.
.TP
mhlproc:
Program to filter messages being forwarded.
.TP
whatnowproc:
Program to ask the \*(lqWhat now?\*(rq questions.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR comp (1),
.IR mhbuild (1),
.IR repl (1),
.IR send (1),
.IR whatnow (1),
.IR mh\-format (5)
.PP
.I
Proposed Standard for Message Encapsulation
(RFC 934)
.SH DEFAULTS
.PD 0
.TP 25
+folder
The current folder.
.TP
msgs
The current message.
.TP
\-noannotate
.TP
\-nodraftfolder
.TP
\-noformat
.TP
\-inplace
.TP
\-dashstuffing
.TP
\-nomime
.PD
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is given, it will become the current folder.
The first message forwarded will become the current message.
.SH BUGS
If
.I whatnowproc
is
.BR whatnow ,
then
.B forw
uses a built\-in
.BR whatnow ,
it does not actually run the
.B whatnow
program.
Hence, if you define your own
.IR whatnowproc ,
don't call it
.B whatnow
since
.B forw
won't run it.
.PP
When
.B forw
is told to annotate the messages it forwards, it
doesn't actually annotate them until the draft is successfully sent.
If from the
.IR whatnowproc ,
you
.B push
instead of
.BR send ,
it's possible to confuse
.B forw
by re\-ordering the file (e.g.\& by using
.RB \*(lq folder
.BR \-pack \*(rq)
before the message is successfully sent.
.B Dist
and
.B repl
don't have this problem.
