.TH MH\-MIME %manext7% 2014-12-15 "%nmhversion%"
.
.\" %nmhwarning%
.
.SH NAME
mh\-mime \- overview of nmh MIME message composition and display
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The acronym MIME stands for Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions, the
format of Internet messages used to send multi-media content.
The
.B nmh
command suite has support for the display and composition of MIME messages, but
currently MIME support is not completely integrated into all tools.  This
document provides an overview as to which tools support MIME message display,
storage, and composition.
.SS
Local Character Set Conversion
All of the
.B nmh
commands convert non-native character sets to the local character set,
as specified by the operating system locale settings.  See
.IR locale (1)
for more details on the environment variables used to set the
local character set.  Character set conversion will only take place if
.B nmh
was built with
.IR iconv (3)
support.  See
.IR mhparam (1)
for how to determine whether your
.B nmh
installation includes
.IR iconv (3)
support.
.PP
Depending on the source and target character set, it may not be possible
to convert all characters to the local character set.  In this case a
substitution character will be used for the characters that cannot be
converted.
.SS
Message Display
The default format used by
.IR scan (1)
will automatically decode MIME-encoded headers.  If you have a custom
.B scan
format, see the examples provided with the
.B nmh
distribution (found in the
.RI \*(lq %nmhetcdir% \*(rq
directory) and
.IR mh\-format (5)
for details on how to make sure your MIME headers are properly decoded.
.PP
By default, if
.B show
detects that it is reading a MIME message it will invoke
.IR mhshow (1).
The default behavior of
.B mhshow
is to only display text parts that are not marked as attachments.  See
.IR mhshow (1)
for details on how to control what
.B mhshow
will display.
.SS
Message Interrogation and Storage
The
.IR mhlist (1)
command will display a listing of the MIME parts contained within a
message.  That information can be used in conjunction with the
.B mhstore
command to save individual parts or content types of a message.  See
.IR mhlist (1)
and
.IR mhstore (1)
for more details on how these commands work.
.SS
Message Composition and Reply
All messages sent by
.IR send (1)
will automatically be processed by
.IR mhbuild (1)
before being passed to
.IR post (1)
for message submission.
.B mhbuild
will use the locale settings to mark text content with the appropriate
character set and apply any necessary encoding.  If you wish to include
text in your message using a character set that does not match your
locale, you will need to specify the character set using an
.B mhbuild
directive; see
.IR mhbuild (1)
for more information.
.PP
For attaching files or composing other non-text content, there are two options:
the attach system and
.B mhbuild
directives.
.PP
The attach system is best suited for content where one or more files are
being attached to a message.  You can use the attach system by either
using the
.B attach
command at the \*(lqWhat now?\*(rq prompt, or by inserting an \*(lqAttach:\*(rq
header in the message draft containing the name of the file you wish to
attach to the message (note that all the
.B attach
command does is place an \*(lqAttach:\*(rq header in the message draft).
.B mhbuild
will then automatically include the specified file(s) in the outgoing
message.  See
.IR send (1)
for details on how
.B mhbuild
determines the proper content type of attached files.
.PP
The other method of composing MIME messages is to use
.B mhbuild
directives.  This allows exact control over the contents and format of
the MIME message, but has a more complicated syntax.
.IR mhbuild (1)
contains details on the directive syntax and examples of directives
for different media types.  It is important to note that when using
.B mhbuild
directives the user must run
.B mhbuild
outside of
.B send
to have it process directives; when being run by
.BR send ,
.B mhbuild
is configured to not process directives so normal user text is not mistaken
for a directive.  When using directives a user typically uses the
.B mime
command at the \*(lqWhat now?\*(rq prompt to process them.
.PP
When replying to messages using
.IR repl (1)
the traditional MH method of including the original text in the reply does
not interoperate with MIME messages.  The
.B \-convertargs
switch to
.IR repl (1)
provides one solution.  Another solution:  the contrib directory
.RI ( %docdir%/contrib )
contains a Perl program called
.B replyfilter
which will decode text parts and present them in an appropriate manner
to be included in a message reply.  See the comments at the top of
.B replyfilter
for instructions on how to configure
.B nmh
to work with it.
.SS
Message Rewrite
The
.IR mhfixmsg (1)
command can apply various transformations to MIME messages, including
decoding of text parts, converting the character set of text parts,
and insertion of text/plain parts to correspond to text parts of other
subtypes.
.B mhfixmsg
can also repair defects in MIME messages, such as mismatched top-level
boundary indicators and invalid Content-Transfer-Encoding values.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR comp (1),
.IR iconv (3),
.IR mh\-format (5),
.IR mhbuild (1),
.IR mhfixmsg (1),
.IR mhparam (1),
.IR nmh (7),
.IR repl (1),
.IR whatnow (1),
.br
.IR %docdir%/contrib/replyfilter ,
.br
.I %docdir%/contrib/replaliases
.SH BUGS
MIME support should be more integrated into all of the
.B nmh
tools than it currently is.
