.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" include the -mh macro file
.so %etcdir%/tmac.h
.\"
.TH MH-TAILOR %manext5% MH.6.8 [%nmhversion%]
.SH NAME
mh-tailor, mts.conf \- mail transport customization for nmh message handler

.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\fI%etcdir%/mts.conf\fP
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file %etcdir%/mts.conf defines run-time options for those \fInmh\fR
programs which interact (in some form) with the message transport system.
At present, these (user) programs are: \fIap\fR, \fIconflict\fR,
\fIinc\fR, \fImsgchk\fR, \fImsh\fR, \fIpost\fR, \fIrcvdist\fR, and
\fIrcvpack\fR.

Each option should be given on a single line.  Blank lines and lines
which begin with `#' are ignored.  The options available along with
default values and a description of their meanings are listed below:

.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
localname:
.br
The hostname \fInmh\fR considers local.  It should typically be a fully
qualified hostname.  If this is not set, depending on the version of
UNIX you're running, \fInmh\fR will query the system for this value
(e.g., uname, gethostname, etc.), and attempt to fully qualify this
value.

If you are using POP to retrieve new messages, you may want to set this
value to the name of the POP server, so that outgoing message appear to
have originated on the POP server.

.ti -.5i
localdomain:
.br
If this is set, a `.' followed by this string will be appended to your
hostname.

This should only be needed, if for some reason \fInmh\fR is not able to
fully qualify the hostname returned by the system (e.g., uname,
gethostname, etc.).

.ti -.5i
clientname:
.br
This option specifies the host name that \fInmh\fP will give in the
SMTP \fBHELO\fP (and \fBEHLO\fP) command, when posting mail.  If not
set, the default is to use the host name that \fInmh\fR considers local
(see \*(lqlocalname\*(rq above).  If this option is set, but empty, no
\fBHELO\fP command will be given.

.sp
Although the \fBHELO\fP command is required by RFC\-821, many SMTP servers
do not require it.  Early versions of SendMail will fail if the hostname
given in the \fBHELO\fP command is the local host.  Later versions of
SendMail will complain if you omit the \fBHELO\fP command.  If you run
SendMail, find out what your system expects and set this field if needed.

.ti -.5i
systemname:
.br
This option is only used for UUCP mail.  It specifies the name of the
local host in the \fIUUCP\fR \*(lqdomain\*(rq.  If not set, depending
on the version of UNIX you're running, \fInmh\fR will query the system
for this value.  This has no equivalent in the \fInmh\fR configuration
file.

.ti -.5i
mmdfldir: %mailspool%
.br
The directory where maildrops are kept.  If this option is set, but empty,
the user's home directory is used.  This overrides the default value
chosen at the time of compilation.

.ti -.5i
mmdflfil: 
.br
The name of the maildrop file in the directory where maildrops are kept.
If this is empty, the user's login name is used.  This overrides the default
value (which is empty).

.ti -.5i
mmdelim1: \\001\\001\\001\\001\\n
.br
The beginning-of-message delimiter for maildrops.

.ti -.5i
mmdelim2: \\001\\001\\001\\001\\n
.br
The end-of-message delimiter for maildrops.

.ti -.5i
mmailid: 0
.br
If this is non-zero, two different types of email address masquerading are
allowed ("mmailid" = "masquerade mail ID").  The first type is GECOS-based
masquerading.  \fInmh\fR will check if the user's pw_gecos field in the passwd
file is of the form:

.ti +.5i
Full Name <fakeusername>

If it is, the internal \fInmh\fR routines that find the username and full name
of that user will return "fakeusername" and "Full Name" respectively.  This is
useful if you want the messages you send to always appear to come from the name
of an MTA alias rather than your actual account name.  For instance, many
organizations set up "First.Last" sendmail aliases for all users.  If this is
the case, the GECOS field for each user should look like:

.ti +.5i
First [Middle] Last <First.Last>

The other type of masquerading that mmailid turns on is envelope "From:"
masquerading based on draft contents.  When a user explicitly specifies a
"From:" header in a message, \fInmh\fR uses it rather than constructing its own.
However, the SMTP envelope "From:" and the "Sender:" header are set to the
user's real address.  Turning on mmailid prevents this latter behavior.  This is
useful when the user wants to pretend to be sending mail "directly" from a
remote POP3 account, or when remote mail robots incorrectly use the envelope
"From:" in preference to the body "From:" (or refuse to take action when the two
don't match).

.ti -.5i
maildelivery: %libdir%/maildelivery
.br
The name of the system-wide default \fI\&.maildelivery\fR file.
See \fIslocal\fR\0(1) for the details.

.ti -.5i
everyone: 200
.br
The highest user-id which should NOT receive mail addressed to
\*(lqeveryone\*(rq.

.ti -.5i
noshell: 
.br
If set, then each user-id greater than \*(lqeveryone\*(rq that has a
login shell equivalent to the given value (e.g., \*(lq/bin/csh\*(rq)
indicates that mail for \*(lqeveryone\*(rq should not be sent to them.
This is useful for handling admin, dummy, and guest logins.

.in -.5i
.Uh "SMTP support"
These options are only available if you compiled \fInmh\fP with the
\*(lq/smtp\*(rq support.

.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
hostable: %etcdir%/hosts
.br
The exceptions file for /etc/hosts used by \fIpost\fR to try to find
official names.  The format of this file is quite simple:

.in +.5i
1. Comments are surrounded by sharp (`#') and newline.
.br
2. Words are surrounded by white space.
.br
3. The first word on the line is the official name of a host.
.br
4. All words following the official names are aliases for that host.
.in -.5i

.ti -.5i
servers: localhost \\01localnet
.br
A lists of hosts and networks which to look for SMTP servers when
posting local mail.  It turns out this is a major win for hosts which
don't run an message transport system.  The value of \*(lqservers\*(rq
should be one or more items.  Each item is the name of either a host
or a net (in the latter case, precede the name of the net by a \\01).
This list is searched when looking for a smtp server to post mail.
If a host is present, the SMTP port on that host is tried.  If a net
is present, the SMTP port on each host in that net is tried.  Note that
if you are running with the BIND code, then any networks specified are
ignored (sorry, the interface went away under BIND).

.in -.5i
.Uh "SendMail"
This option is only available if you compiled \fInmh\fP to use
\fISendMail\fP as your delivery agent.

.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
sendmail: %sendmailpath%
.br
The pathname to the \fIsendmail\fR program.

.in -.5i
.Uh "Post Office Protocol"
This option is only available if you have compiled \fInmh\fP with POP
support enabled (i.e., \*(lq--enable-nmh-pop\*(rq).

.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
pophost:
.br
The name of the default POP service host.  If this is not set, then
\fInmh\fR looks in the standard maildrop areas for waiting mail, otherwise
the named POP service host is consulted.

.in -.5i
.Uh "BBoards Delivery"
This option is only available if you compiled \fInmh\fP with
\*(lqbbdelivery:\ on\*(rq.

.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
bbdomain:
.br
The local BBoards domain (a UCI hack).

.in -.5i
.Uh "BBoards & The POP"
These options are only available if you compiled \fInmh\fP with
\*(lqbboards:\ pop\*(rq and \*(lqpop:\ on\*(rq.

.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
popbbhost:
.br
The POP service host which also acts as a BBoard server.  This variable
should be set on the POP BBoards client host.

.ti -.5i
popbbuser:
.br
The guest account on the POP/BB service host.  This should be a different
login ID than either the POP user or the BBoards user.  (The user-id
\*(lqftp\*(rq is highly recommended.)  This variable should be set on
both the POP BBoards client and service hosts.

.ti -.5i
popbblist: %etcdir%/hosts.popbb
.br
A file containing of lists of hosts that are allowed to use the POP
facility to access BBoards using the guest account.  If this file is not
present, then no check is made.  This variable should be set on the POP
BBoards service host.

.in -.5i
.if n .ne 8
.Uh "BBoards & The NNTP"
This option is only available if you compiled \fInmh\fP with
\*(lqbboards:\ nntp\*(rq and \*(lqpop:\ on\*(rq.

.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
nntphost:
.br
The host which provides the NNTP service.  This variable should be set
on the NNTP BBoards client host.

.in -.5i
.Uh "File Locking"
A few words on locking: \fInmh\fR has several methods for creating locks
on files.  When configuring \fInmh\fR, you will need to decide on the
locking style and locking directory (if any).  The first controls the
method of locking, the second says where lock files should be created.

To configure \fInmh\fR for kernel locking, define \fBFLOCK_LOCKING\fP if
you want to use the \fIflock\fP system call; define \fBLOCKF_LOCKING\fP if
you want to use the \fIlockf\fP system call; or define \fBFCNTL_LOCKING\fP
if you want to use the \fIfcntl\fP system call for kernel-level locking.

Instead of kernel locking, you can configure \fInmh\fR to use dot
locking by defining \fBDOT_LOCKING\fP.  Dot locking specifies that
a file should be created whose existence means \*(lqlocked\*(rq and
whose non-existence means \*(lqunlocked\*(rq.  The name of this file is
constructed by appending \*(lq.lock\*(rq to the name of the file being
locked.  If \fBLOCKDIR\fP is not specified, lock files will be created
in the directory where the file being locked resides.  Otherwise, lock
files will be created in the directory specified by \fBLOCKDIR\fP.

Prior to installing \fInmh\fR, you should see how locking is done at
your site, and set the appropriate values.

.Fi
^%etcdir%/mts.conf~^nmh mts configuration file
.Pr
None
.Sa
mh\-mts(8)
.De
As listed above
.Co
None
.En
