.TH MHFIXMSG %manext1% 2016-11-08 "%nmhversion%"
.
.\" %nmhwarning%
.
.SH NAME
mhfixmsg \- rewrite nmh MIME messages with various transformations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B mhfixmsg
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RI [ +folder ]
.RI [ msgs " | "
.IR "absolute pathname" " | "
.RB \-file
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-decodetext
8bit|7bit|binary |
.BR \-nodecodetext ]
.RB [ \-decodetypes
.IR "type/[subtype][,...]" ]
.RB [ \-crlflinebreaks " | " \-nocrlflinebreaks ]
.RB [ \-textcharset
.I charset
.RB "| " \-notextcharset ]
.RB [ \-reformat " | " \-noreformat ]
.RB [ \-replacetextplain " | " \-noreplacetextplain ]
.RB [ \-fixboundary " | " \-nofixboundary ]
.RB [ \-fixcte " | " \-nofixcte ]
.RB [ \-fixtype
.IR mimetype ]
.RB [ \-outfile
.IR outfile ]
.RB [ \-rmmproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-normmproc ]
.RB [ \-changecur " | " \-nochangecur ]
.RB [ \-verbose " | " \-noverbose ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mhfixmsg
rewrites MIME messages, applying specific transformations such as
decoding of MIME-encoded message parts and repairing invalid MIME
headers.
.PP
MIME messages are specified in RFC 2045 to RFC 2049
(see
.IR mhbuild (1)).
The
.B mhlist
command is invaluable for viewing the content structure of MIME
messages.
.B mhfixmsg
passes non-MIME messages through without any transformations.  If no
transformations apply to a MIME message, the original message or file
is not modified or removed.  Thus,
.B mhfixmsg
can safely be run multiple times on a message.
.PP
The
.B \-decodetext
switch enables a transformation to decode each base64 and quoted-printable
text message part to the selected 8-bit, 7-bit, or
binary encoding.
If 7-bit is selected for a base64 part but it will only fit
8-bit, as defined by RFC 2045, then it will be decoded to 8-bit
quoted-printable.
Similarly, with 8-bit, if the decoded text would be binary,
then the part is not decoded (and a message will be displayed if
.B \-verbose
is enabled).  Note that
.B \-decodetext
binary can produce messages that are not RFC 2045 compliant.
.PP
When the
.B \-decodetext
switch is enabled, each carriage return character that precedes a
linefeed character is removed from text parts encoded in ASCII,
ISO-8859-x, UTF-8, or Windows-12xx.
.PP
The
.B \-decodetypes
switch specifies the message parts, by type and optionally subtype,
to which
.B \-decodetext
applies.  Its argument is a comma-separated list of type/subtype
elements.  If an element does not contain a subtype, then
.B \-decodetext
applies to all subtypes of the type.  The default is
.B \-decodetypes
.IR text ;
it can be overridden, e.g., with
.B \-decodetypes
.I text/plain
to restrict
.B \-decodetext
to just text/plain parts.
.PP
By default, carriage return characters are preserved or inserted at
the end of each line of text content.  The
.B \-crlflinebreaks
switch selects this behavior and is enabled by default.  The
.B \-nocrlflinebreaks
switch causes carriage return characters to be stripped from, and not
inserted in, text content when it is decoded and encoded.  Note that
its use can cause the generation of MIME messages that do not conform
to RFC 2046, ยง4.1.1, paragraph 1.
.PP
The
.B \-textcharset
switch specifies that all text/plain parts of the message(s)
should be converted to
.IR charset .
Charset conversions require that
.B nmh
be built with
.IR iconv (3);
see the
.BR mhparam (1)
man page for how determine whether your
.B nmh
installation includes that.
To convert text parts other than text/plain, an external program can
be used, via the
.B \-reformat
switch.
.PP
The
.B \-reformat
switch enables a transformation for text parts in the message.  For
each text part that is not text/plain and that does not have a
corresponding text/plain in a multipart/alternative part,
.B mhfixmsg
looks for a mhfixmsg-format-text/subtype profile entry that matches
the subtype of the part.  If one is found and can be used to
successfully convert the part to text/plain,
.B mhfixmsg
inserts that text/plain part at the beginning of the containing
multipart/alternative part, if present.  If not, it creates a
multipart/alternative part.
.PP
With the
.B \-reformat
switch, multipart/related parts are handled differently than
multipart/alternative.  If the multipart/related has only a single
part that is not text/plain and can be converted to text/plain, a
text/plain part is added and the type of the part is changed to
multipart/alternative.  If the multipart/related has more than one
part but does not have a text/plain part,
.B mhfixmsg
tries to add one.
.PP
The
.B \-replacetextplain
switch broadens the applicability of
.BR \-reformat ,
by always replacing a corresponding text/plain part, if one exists.
If
.B \-verbose
is enabled, the replacement will be shown as two steps:  a removal of
the text/plain part, followed by the usual insertion of a new part.
.PP
.B \-reformat
requires a profile entry for each text part subtype to be reformatted.
The mhfixmsg-format-text/subtype profile entries are based on external
conversion programs, and are used in the same way that
.B mhshow
uses its mhshow-show-text/subtype entries.  When
.B nmh
is installed, it searches for a conversion program for text/html
content, and if one is found, inserts a mhfixmsg-format-text/html
entry in %nmhetcdir%/mhn.defaults.  An entry of the same name in the
user's profile takes precedence.  The user can add entries for
other text subtypes to their profile.
.PP
The
.B \-fixboundary
switch enables a transformation to repair the boundary portion of the
Content-Type header field of the message to match the boundaries of
the outermost multipart part of the message, if it does not.  That
condition is indicated by a \*(lqbogus multipart content in
message\*(rq error message from
.B mhlist
and other
.B nmh
programs that parse MIME messages.
.PP
The
.B \-fixcte
switch enables a transformation to change the
Content-Transfer-Encoding from an invalid value to 8-bit in message
parts with a Content-Type of multipart and message, as required by
RFC 2045, ยง6.4.  That condition is indicated by a \*(lqmust be
encoded in 7bit, 8bit, or binary\*(rq error message from
.B mhlist
and other
.B nmh
programs that parse MIME messages.
.PP
The
.B \-fixtype
switch ensures that each part of the message has the correct MIME type
shown in its Content-Type header.  It may be repeated.  It is
typically used to replace \*(lqapplication/octet-stream\*(rq with a
more descriptive MIME type.  It may not be used for multipart and
message types.
.PP
.B mhfixmsg
applies two transformations unconditionally.
The first removes an extraneous trailing semicolon from the parameter
lists of MIME header field values.
The second replaces RFC 2047 encoding with RFC 2231 encoding of name
and filename parameters in Content-Type and Content-Disposition header
field values, respectively.
.PP
The
.B \-verbose
switch directs
.B mhfixmsg
to output informational message for each transformation applied.
.PP
The return status of
.B mhfixmsg
is 0 if all of the requested transformations are performed, or
non-zero otherwise.
.RB ( mhfixmsg
will not decode to binary content with the default
.B \-decodetext
setting, but a request to do so is not considered a failure, and is noted
with
.BR \-verbose .)
If a problem is detected with any one of multiple messages such that
the return status is non-zero, then none of the messages will be
modified.
.PP
The
.B \-file
.I file
switch directs
.B mhfixmsg
to use the specified file as the source message, rather than a message
from a folder.  Only one file argument may be provided.  The
.B \-file
switch is implied if
.I file
is an absolute pathname.  If the file is \*(lq-\*(rq, then
.B mhfixmsg
accepts the source message on the standard input stream.  If the
.B \-outfile
switch is not enabled when using the standard input stream,
.B mhfixmsg
will not produce a transformed output message.
.PP
.BR mhfixmsg ,
by default, transforms the message in place.  If the
.B \-outfile
switch is enabled, then
.B mhfixmsg
does not modify the input message or file, but instead places its
output in the specified file.  An outfile name of \*(lq-\*(rq
specifies the standard output stream.
.PP
Combined with the
.B \-verbose
switch, the
.B \-outfile
switch can be used to show what transformations
.B mhfixmsg
would apply without actually applying them, e.g.,
.PP
.RS 5
mhfixmsg -outfile /dev/null -verbose
.RE
.PP
As always, this usage obeys any
.B mhfixmsg
switches in the user's profile.
.PP
.B \-outfile
can be combined with
.B rcvstore
to add a single transformed message to a different folder, e.g.,
.PP
.RS 5
mhfixmsg -outfile - | \\
.RS 0
%nmhlibexecdir%/rcvstore +folder
.RE
.RE
.SS Summary of Applicability
The transformations apply to the parts of a message depending on
content type and/or encoding as follows:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'\-crlflinebreaks 'u
\-decodetext         base64 and quoted-printable encoded text parts
\-decodetypes        limits parts to which -decodetext applies
\-crlflinebreaks     text parts
\-textcharset        text/plain parts
\-reformat           text parts that are not text/plain
\-fixboundary        outermost multipart part
\-fixcte             multipart or message part
\-fixtype            all except multipart and message parts
.fi
.RE
.SS "Backup of Original Message/File"
If it applies any transformations to a message or file, and the
.B \-outfile
switch is not used,
.B mhfixmsg
backs up the original the same way as
.BR rmm .
That is, it uses the
.I rmmproc
profile component, if present.  If not present,
.B mhfixmsg
moves the original message to a backup file.
The
.B \-rmmproc
switch may be used to override this profile component.  The
.B \-normmproc
switch disables the use of any
.I rmmproc
profile component and negates all prior
.B \-rmmproc
switches.
.SS "Integration with inc"
.B mhfixmsg
can be used as an add-hook, as described in %docdir%/README-HOOKS.
Note that add-hooks are called from all
.B nmh
programs that add a message to a folder, not just
.BR inc .
Alternatively, a simple shell alias or function can be used to call
.B mhfixmsg
immediately after a successful invocation of
.BR inc .
One approach could be based on:
.PP
.RS 5
msgs=`inc -format '%(msg)'`  &&  [ -n "$msgs" ]  &&  scan $msgs  &&  \
mhfixmsg -nochangecur $msgs
.RE
.PP
Another approach would rely on adding a sequence to Unseen-Sequence,
which
.B inc
sets with the newly incorporated messages.  Those could then be
supplied to
.BR mhfixmsg .
An example is shown below.
.SS "Integration with procmail"
By way of example, here is an excerpt from a procmailrc file
that filters messages through
.B mhfixmsg
before storing them in the user's
.I nmh-workers
folder.  It also stores the incoming message in the
.I Backups
folder in a filename generated by
.BR mkstemp ,
which is a non-POSIX utility to generate a temporary file.
Alternatively,
.B mhfixmsg
could be called on the message after it is stored.
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'\-fixboundary 'u
PATH = %bindir%:$PATH
LANG = en_US.utf8
MAILDIR = `mhparam path`
#### The Backups directory is relative to MAILDIR.
MKSTEMP = 'mkstemp -directory Backups -prefix mhfixmsg'
MHFIXMSG = 'mhfixmsg -noverbose -file - -outfile -'
STORE = %nmhlibexecdir%/rcvstore

:0 w: nmh-workers/procmail.$LOCKEXT
* ^TOnmh-workers@nongnu.org
| tee `$MKSTEMP` | $MHFIXMSG | $STORE +nmh-workers
.fi
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.SS Basic usage
To run
.B mhfixmsg
on the current message in the current folder, with default transformations to
fix MIME boundaries and Content-Transfer-Encoding, to decode text and
application/ics content parts to 8 bit, and to add a corresponding text/plain
part where lacking:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mhfixmsg -verbose
.fi
.RE
.SS Specified folder and messages
To run
.B mhfixmsg
on specified messages, without its informational output:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mhfixmsg +inbox last:4
.fi
.RE
.SS View without modification
By default,
.B mhfixmsg
transforms the message in place.
To view the MIME structure that would result from running
.B mhfixmsg
on the current message, without modifying the message:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mhfixmsg -outfile - | mhlist -file -
.fi
.RE
.SS Search message without modification
To search the current message, which possibly contains base64
or quoted printable encoded text parts, without modifying it,
use the
.B \-outfile
switch:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mhfixmsg -outfile - | grep \fIpattern\fR
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B \-outfile
can be abbreviated in usual MH fashion, e.g., to -o.  The search will be
on the entire message, not just text parts.
.SS Translate text/plain parts to UTF-8
To translate all text/plain parts in the current message to UTF-8, in addition
to all of the default transformations:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mhfixmsg -textcharset utf-8
.fi
.RE
.SS Fix all messages in a folder
To run
.B mhfixmsg
on all of the messages in a folder:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mhfixmsg +folder all
.fi
.RE
.PP
Alternatively,
.B mhfixmsg
can be run on each message separately, e.g., using a Bourne shell loop:
.PP
.RS
.nf
for msg in `pick +folder`; do mhfixmsg +folder $msg; done
.fi
.RE
.PP
The two appearances of the
.B +folder
switch in that command protect against concurrent context changes by other
.B nmh
command invocations.
.SS Run on newly incorporated messages
To run
.B mhfixmsg
on messages as they are incorporated:
.PP
.RS
.nf
inc  &&  mhfixmsg -nochangecur unseen
.fi
.RE
.PP
This assumes that the Unseen-Sequence profile entry is set to
.BR unseen ,
as shown in
.IR mh-profile (5).
.SH FILES
.B mhfixmsg
looks for mhn.defaults in multiple locations: absolute pathnames are
accessed directly, tilde expansion is done on usernames, and files are
searched for in the user's
.I Mail
directory as specified in their profile.  If not found there, the directory
.RI \*(lq %nmhetcdir% \*(rq
is checked.
.PP
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%nmhetcdir%/mhn.defaults  'u
^$HOME/.mh_profile~^The user profile
^%nmhetcdir%/mhn.defaults~^Default mhfixmsg conversion entries
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^Path:~^To determine the user's nmh directory
^Current\-Folder:~^To find the default current folder
^rmmproc:~^Program to delete original messages or files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR iconv (3),
.IR inc (1),
.IR mh-mkstemp (1),
.IR mh-profile (5),
.IR mhbuild (1),
.IR mhlist (1),
.IR mhparam (1),
.IR mhshow (1),
.IR procmail (1),
.IR procmailrc (5),
.IR rcvstore (1),
.IR rmm (1)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` +folder "' defaults to the current folder"
.RB ` msgs "' defaults to cur"
.RB ` "\-decodetext 8bit"'
.RB ` "\-decodetypes text,application/ics"'
.RB ` \-crlflinebreaks '
.RB ` \-notextcharset '
.RB ` \-reformat '
.RB ` \-noreplacetextplain '
.RB ` \-fixboundary '
.RB ` \-fixcte '
.RB ` \-changecur '
.RB ` \-noverbose '
.fi
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is given, it will become the current folder.  The last
message selected from a folder will become the current message, unless
the
.B \-nochangecur
switch is enabled.  If the
.B \-file
switch or an absolute pathname is used, the context will not be
modified.
