.TH MHICAL %manext1% 2015-01-04 "%nmhversion%"
.
.\" %nmhwarning%
.
.SH NAME
mhical \- nmh's manipulator of iCalendar event requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B mhical
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-form
.IR formatfile ]
.RB [ \-format
.IR formatstring ]
.RB [[ \-reply
.IR "accept" " | " "decline" " | " "tentative" "] |"
.BR \-cancel ]
.RB [ \-attendee
.IR address ]
.RB [ \-contenttype ]
.RB [ \-infile
.IR infile ]
.RB [ \-outfile
.IR outfile ]
.RB [ \-unfold ]
.RB [ \-debug ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mhical
manipulates an iCalendar (.ics) event request, to display it, generate
a reply to it, or cancel it.  iCalendar event requests and replies are
defined by RFC 5545.
.PP
The default operation is to display the iCalendar event request in a
human-readable format.
.PP
For the display operation, the
.B \-format
.I string
and
.B \-form
.I formatfile
switches may be used to specify a format string or a format file to read.
If given a format string, it must be specified as a single argument to
the
.B \-format
switch.  If given a format file name with
.BR \-form ,
the file is searched for using the normal
.B nmh
rules: absolute pathnames are accessed directly, tilde expansion is
done on usernames, and files are searched for in the user's
.I Mail
directory as specified in their profile.  If not found there, the directory
.RI \*(lq %nmhetcdir% \*(rq
is checked.
.B mhical
defaults to using a format file named
.BR mhical.24hour ,
and will use the one installed in the
.RI \*(lq %nmhetcdir% \*(rq
directory if not found elsewhere.
.PP
The following format components are supported:
.PP
.RS 5
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'description 'u
.B ^method~^
.B ^organizer~^
.B ^summary~^
.B ^description~^
.B ^location~^
.B ^dtstart~^
.B ^dtend~^
.B ^attendees~^
.fi
.RE
.PP
Those format names are case-sensitive.  Each corresponds to the
iCalendar property of the same name as defined in RFC 5545, with the
exception of
.BR attendees .
That is a comma-delimited list of the common name (CN), if available,
or email address of Attendee properties.  A maximum of 20 will be
displayed.
.SS Timezone
.B mhical
will display the event with times converted to the timezone specified
by the
.B TZ
environment variable, if it is set, see tzset(3).  If not set, its
behavior is implementation defined, but may use the user's local
timezone.
.SS Reply
The
.B \-reply
switch generates a reply from the event request.  The required
action parameter must be one of
.IR "accept" ,
.IR "decline" ", or"
.IR "tentative" .
Delegation is not supported.
.PP
If one of your mailboxes matches more than one attendee in the request, the
.B \-attendee
switch must be used to select the one to use in the reply.  The
.B \-attendee
switch can also be used to specify the attendee address if no attendees match
any of your mailboxes.
.SS Cancel
The
.B \-cancel
switch generates an iCalendar event that can be used to cancel
the event request.
.SS "Input/Output"
By default,
.B mhical
reads from standard input and writes to standard output.  The
.B \-infile
and
.BR \-outfile ,
respectively, switches can be used to override these defaults.
.SS "Miscellaneous Switches"
The
.B \-contenttype
switch instructs
.B mhical
to insert a Content-Type header at the beginning of its output,
for use by
.BR mhbuild .
It can only be used with
.B \-reply
and
.BR \-cancel .
.PP
The
.B \-unfold
switch echoes the event request, but with all lines unfolded.
.PP
The
.B \-debug
switch reveals minute details of the parse process.
.SH FILES
.B mhical
looks for format files in multiple locations:  absolute pathnames are
accessed directly, tilde expansion is done on usernames, and files are
searched for in the user's
.I Mail
directory as specified in their profile.  If not found there, the directory
.RI \*(lq %nmhetcdir% \*(rq
is checked.
.PP
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%nmhetcdir%/mhical.24hour  'u
^%nmhetcdir%/mhical.24hour~^The default display template
^%nmhetcdir%/mhical.12hour~^Display template that uses 12-hour clock
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mhbuild (1),
.IR mh\-format (5),
.IR mh\-profile (5),
.IR tzset (3),
.IR repl (1)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` \-form "' defaults to mhical.24hour"
.RB ` \-infile "' defaults to standard input"
.RB ` \-outfile "' defaults to standard output"
.fi
.SH BUGS
.B mhical
supports only a very limited subset of RRULE formats.  Specifically,
only a frequency of YEARLY and an interval of 1 are supported.
.PP
.B mhical
produces output with just newlines instead of carriage return-newline
combinations.  This is intentional, to fit with typical
.B nmh
convention.
