.TH MHL %manext1% 2014-09-15 "%nmhversion%"
.
.\" %nmhwarning%
.
.SH NAME
mhl \- produce formatted listings of nmh messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B %nmhlibexecdir%/mhl
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-bell " | " \-nobell ]
.RB [ \-clear " | " \-noclear ]
.RB [ \-folder
.IR +folder ]
.RB [ \-form
.IR formfile ]
.RB [ \-length
.IR lines ]
.RB [ \-width
.IR columns ]
.RB [ \-moreproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-nomoreproc ]
.RB [ \-fmtproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-nofmtproc ]
.RI [ files
.IR \&... ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mhl
is an
.B nmh
command for filtering and/or displaying text messages.
It is the default method of displaying text messages for
.B nmh
(it is the default
.IR showproc ).
.PP
As with
.BR more ,
each of the messages specified as arguments (or the standard input) will be
output.  If more than one message file is specified, the user will be
prompted prior to each one, and a <RETURN> or <EOT> will begin the output,
with <RETURN> clearing the screen (if appropriate), and <EOT> (usually
CTRL-D) suppressing the screen clear.  An <INTERRUPT> (usually CTRL-C) will
abort the current message output, prompting for the next message (if there
is one), and a <QUIT> (usually CTRL-\) will terminate the program (without
core dump).
.PP
The
.B \-bell
option tells
.B mhl
to ring the terminal's bell at the end of each page, while the
.B \-clear
option tells
.B mhl
to clear the screen at the end of each page (or output a formfeed after
each message).  Both of these switches (and their inverse counterparts)
take effect only if the profile entry
.I moreproc
is defined but empty, and
.B mhl
is outputting to a terminal.  If the
.I moreproc
entry is defined and non-empty, and
.B mhl
is outputting to a terminal, then
.B mhl
will cause the
.I moreproc
to be placed between the terminal and
.B mhl
and the switches are ignored.  Furthermore, if the
.B \-clear
switch is
used and
.IR mhl 's
output is directed to a terminal, then
.B mhl
will consult the TERM and TERMCAP environment variables to determine
the user's terminal type in order to find out how to clear the screen.
If the
.B \-clear
switch is given and
.BR mhl 's
output is not directed to a terminal (e.g., a pipe or a file), then
.B mhl
will send a formfeed after each message.
.PP
To override the default
.I moreproc
and the profile entry, use the
.B \-moreproc
.I program
switch.  Note that
.B mhl
will never start a
.I moreproc
if invoked on a hardcopy terminal.
.PP
The
.B \-length
.I length
and
.B \-width
.I width
switches set the screen length and width, respectively.
These default to the values indicated by TERMCAP, if appropriate, otherwise
they default to 40 and 80, respectively.
.PP
The default format file used by
.B mhl
is called
.RI \*(lq mhl.format \*(rq.
.B mhl
will first search for this file in the user's
.B nmh
directory, and will then search in the directory
.IR %nmhetcdir% .
This default can be changed by using the
.B \-form
.I formatfile
switch.
.PP
Finally, the
.B \-folder
.I +folder
switch sets the
.B nmh
folder name, which is used for the \*(lqmessagename:\*(rq field described below.
The environment variable
.B $mhfolder
is consulted for the default value, which
.BR next ,
.BR show ,
and
.B prev
initialize appropriately.
.PP
.B mhl
operates in two phases: 1) read and parse the format file, and
2) process each message (file).  During phase 1, an internal description
of the format is produced as a structured list.  In phase 2, this list
is walked for each message, outputting message information under the
format constraints from the format file.
.PP
The format file can contain information controlling screen clearing,
screen size, wrap-around control, transparent text, component ordering,
and component formatting.  Also, a list of components to ignore may be
specified, and a couple of \*(lqspecial\*(rq components are defined
to provide added functionality.  Message output will be in the order
specified by the order in the format file.
.PP
Each line of a format file has one of the following forms:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
;comment
:cleartext
variable[,variable...]
component:[variable,...]
.fi
.RE
.IP \(bu 4
A line beginning with a `;' is a comment, and is ignored.
.IP \(bu 4
A line beginning with a `:' is clear text, and is output exactly as is.
.IP \(bu 4
A line containing only a `:' produces a blank line in the output.
.IP \(bu 4
A line beginning with \*(lqcomponent:\*(rq defines the format for the specified
component,
.IP \(bu 4
Remaining lines define the global environment.
.PP
For example, the line:
.PP
.RS 5
width=80,length=40,clearscreen,overflowtext="***",overflowoffset=5
.RE
.PP
defines the screen size to be 80 columns by 40 rows, specifies that the
screen should be cleared prior to each page, that the overflow indentation
is 5, and that overflow text should be flagged with \*(lq***\*(rq.
.PP
Following are all of the current variables and their arguments.  If they
follow a component, they apply only to that component, otherwise, their
affect is global.  Since the whole format is parsed before any output
processing, the last global switch setting for a variable applies to
the whole message if that variable is used in a global context (i.e.,
bell, clearscreen, width, length).
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'noclearscreen  'u +\w'integer/G  'u
.I "variable	type	semantics"
width	integer	screen width or component width
length	integer	screen length or component length
offset	integer	positions to indent \*(lqcomponent: \*(rq
overflowtext	string	text to use at the beginning of an
		overflow line
overflowoffset	integer	positions to indent overflow lines
compwidth	integer	positions to indent component text
		after the first line is output
uppercase	flag	output text of this component in all
		upper case
nouppercase	flag	don't uppercase
clearscreen	flag/G	clear the screen prior to each page
noclearscreen	flag/G	don't clearscreen
bell	flag/G	ring the bell at the end of each page
nobell	flag/G	don't bell
component	string/L	name to use instead of \*(lqcomponent\*(rq for
		this component
nocomponent	flag	don't output \*(lqcomponent: \*(rq for this
		component
center	flag	center component on line (works for
		one-line components only)
nocenter	flag	don't center
leftadjust	flag	strip off leading whitespace on each
		line of text
noleftadjust	flag	don't leftadjust
rtrim	flag	trim whitespace at end of text lines
nortrim	flag	retain whitespace at end of text
		lines (default)
compress	flag	change newlines in text to spaces
nocompress	flag	don't compress
wrap	flag	Wrap lines that exceed width (default)
nowrap	flag	Do not perform line wrapping
split	flag	don't combine multiple fields into
		a single field
nosplit	flag	combine multiple fields into
		a single field
newline	flag	print newline at end of components
		(this is the default)
nonewline	flag	don't print newline at end of components
formatfield	string	format string for this component
		(see below)
decode	flag	decode text as RFC 2047 encoded
		header field
addrfield	flag	field contains addresses
datefield	flag	field contains dates
format	flag	Run component through formatproc filter
		(body only)
noformat	flag	Do not run component through
		formatproc filter (default)
formatarg	string	Argument to format filter
.fi
.RE
.PP
To specify the value of integer-valued and string-valued variables,
follow their name with an equals-sign and the value.  Integer-valued
variables are given decimal values, while string-valued variables
are given arbitrary text bracketed by double-quotes.  If a value is
suffixed by \*(lq/G\*(rq or \*(lq/L\*(rq, then its value is useful in
a global-only or local-only context (respectively).
.PP
A line of the form:
.PP
.RS 5
ignores=component,...
.RE
.PP
specifies a list of components which are never output.
.PP
The component \*(lqMessageName\*(rq (case-insensitive) will output the
actual message name (file name) preceded by the folder name if one is
specified or found in the environment.  The format is identical to that
produced by the
.B \-header
option to
.BR show .
.PP
The component \*(lqExtras\*(rq will output all of the components of the
message which were not matched by explicit components, or included in
the ignore list.  If this component is not specified, an ignore list is
not needed since all non-specified components will be ignored.
.PP
If \*(lqnocomponent\*(rq is
.I not
specified, then the component name will
be output as it appears in the format file.
.PP
The default format file is:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
%mhl_format%
.fi
.RE
.PP
The variable \*(lqformatfield\*(rq specifies a format string (see
.IR mh\-format (5)).
The flag variables \*(lqaddrfield\*(rq and \*(lqdatefield\*(rq
(which are mutually exclusive), tell
.B mhl
to interpret the escapes in the format string as either addresses or
dates, respectively.
.PP
By default,
.B mhl
does not apply any formatting string to fields containing address or dates
(see
.IR mh\-mail (5)
for a list of these
fields).  Note that this results in faster operation since
.B mhl
must parse both addresses and dates in order to apply a format string
to them.  If desired,
.B mhl
can be given a default format string for either address or date fields
(but not both).  To do this, on a global line specify: either the flag
addrfield or datefield, along with the appropriate formatfield variable string.
.PP
The \*(lqformat\*(rq flag specifies that this component will be run through
the filter program specified by the
.I formatproc
profile entry.  This filter program is expected to read data on standard
input and output data on standard output.  Currently the \*(lqformat\*(rq
flag is only supported for the \*(lqbody\*(rq component.  The component
name will be prefixed to the output
.I after
the filter has been run.  The expected use of this is to filter a message
body to create more pleasing text to use in a reply message.
A suggested filter to use for
.IR repl (1)
is as follows:
.PP
.RS 5
body:component=">",overflowtext=">",overflowoffset=0,format,nowrap
.RE
.PP
The
.B \-fmtproc
and
.B \-nofmtproc
switches can be used to override the
.I formatproc
profile entry.
.PP
The
.I formatarg
option specifies a string that is used as an argument to the format filter.
This string is processed by
.IR mh\-format (5)
and all of the message components are available for use.  Multiple
.I formatarg
options can be used to build up multiple arguments to the format filter.
.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%nmhetcdir%/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^%nmhetcdir%/mhl.format~^The message template
^or <mh-dir>/mhl.format~^Rather than the standard template
^$HOME/.mh_profile~^The user profile
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^moreproc:~^Program to use as interactive front-end
^formatproc:~^Program to use as a filter for components that
^^have the \*(lqformat\*(rq flag set.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR show (1),
.IR ap (8),
.IR dp (8)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` \-bell '
.RB ` \-noclear '
.RB ` \-length\ 40 '
.RB ` \-width\ 80 '
.fi
.SH CONTEXT
None
.SH BUGS
There should be some way to pass `bell' and `clear' information to the
front-end.
.PP
The \*(lqnonewline\*(rq option interacts badly with \*(lqcompress\*(rq
and \*(lqsplit\*(rq.
.PP
The \*(lqformat\*(rq option really should work on something other than the body
component.
