.TH MHLIST %manext1% "March 23, 2017" "%nmhversion%"
.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\"
.SH NAME
mhlist \- list information about nmh MIME messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B mhlist
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RI [ +folder ]
.RI [ msgs ]
.RB [ \-file
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-part
.IR number ]
\&...
.RB [ \-type
.IR content ]
\&...
.RB [ \-prefer
.IR content ]
\&...
.RB [ \-headers " | " \-noheaders ]
.RB [ \-realsize " | " \-norealsize ]
.RB [ \-rcache
.IR policy ]
.RB [ \-wcache
.IR policy ]
.RB [ \-check " | " \-nocheck ]
.RB [ \-changecur " | " \-nochangecur ]
.RB [ \-verbose " | " \-noverbose ]
.RB [ \-disposition " | " \-nodisposition ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mhlist
command allows you to list information (a table of contents, essentially)
about the various parts of a collection of MIME (multi-media) messages.
.PP
.B mhlist
manipulates MIME messages as specified in RFC 2045 to RFC 2049 (See
.IR mhbuild (1)).
.PP
The
.B \-headers
switch indicates that a one-line banner should be displayed above the
listing (the default).
.PP
The
.B \-realsize
switch tells
.B mhlist
to evaluate the \*(lqnative\*(rq (decoded) format of each content prior
to listing.  This provides an accurate count at the expense of a small delay.
In either case, sizes will be expressed using SI prefix abbreviations
(K/M/G/T), which are based on factors of 1000.
.PP
If the
.B \-verbose
switch is present, then the listing will show any \*(lqextra\*(rq
information that is present in the message, such as comments in the
\*(lqContent-Type\*(rq header.
.PP
If the
.B \-disposition
switch is present, then the listing will show any relevant information from
the \*(lqContent-Disposition\*(rq header.
.PP
The option
.B \-file
.I file
directs
.B mhlist
to use the specified file as the source message, rather than a message
from a folder.  If you specify this file as \*(lq-\*(rq, then
.B mhlist
will accept the source message on the standard input.  Note that the
file, or input from standard input should be a validly formatted
message, just like any other
.B nmh
message.  It should NOT be in mail drop format (to convert a file in
mail drop format to a folder of
.B nmh
messages, see
.IR inc (1)).
.PP
By default,
.B mhlist
will list information about the entire message (all of its parts).
By using the
.BR \-part ,
.BR \-type ,
and
.B \-prefer
switches, you may limit and reorder the set of parts to be listed,
based on part number and/or content type.
.PP
A part specification consists of a series of numbers separated by
dots.  For example, in a multipart content containing three parts,
these would be named as 1, 2, and 3, respectively.  If part 2 was also
a multipart content containing two parts, these would be named as 2.1
and 2.2, respectively.  Note that the
.B \-part
switch is effective only for messages containing a multipart content.
If a message has some other kind of content, or if the part is itself
another multipart content, the
.B \-part
switch will not prevent the content from being acted upon.
.PP
The
.B \-type
switch can also be used to restrict (or, when used in conjunction with
.BR \-part ,
to further restrict) the selection of parts according to content type.
One or more
.B \-type
switches part will only select the first match from a multipart/alternative,
even if there is more than one subpart that matches (one of) the given
content type(s).
.PP
Using either
.B \-part
or
.B -type
switches alone will cause either to select the part(s) they match.
Using them together will select only the part(s) matched by both
(sets of) switches.  In other words, the result is the intersection,
and not the union, of their separate match results.
.PP
A content specification consists of a content type and a subtype.
The initial list of \*(lqstandard\*(rq content types and subtypes can
be found in RFC 2046.
.PP
A list of commonly used contents is briefly reproduced here:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'application  'u
Type	Subtypes
----	--------
text	plain, enriched
multipart	mixed, alternative, digest, parallel
message	rfc822, partial, external-body
application	octet-stream, postscript
image	jpeg, gif, png
audio	basic
video	mpeg
.fi
.RE
.PP
A legal MIME message must contain a subtype specification.
.PP
To specify a content, regardless of its subtype, just use the
name of the content, e.g., \*(lqaudio\*(rq.  To specify a specific
subtype, separate the two with a slash, e.g., \*(lqaudio/basic\*(rq.
Note that regardless of the values given to the
.B \-type
switch, a multipart content (of any subtype listed above) is always
acted upon.  Further note that if the
.B \-type
switch is used, and it is desirable to act on a message/external-body
content, then the
.B \-type
switch must be used twice: once for message/external-body and once
for the content externally referenced.
.PP
By default, the parts of a multipart/alternative part are listed in
the reverse order of their placement in the message.  The listing,
therefore, is in decreasing order of preference, as defined in RFC
2046.  The
.B \-prefer
switch can be used (one or more times, in order of descending
preference) to let MH know which content types from a
multipart/alternative MIME part are preferred by the user, in order to
override the default preference order.  Thus, when viewed by
.BR mhlist ,
the ordering of multipart/alternative parts will appear to change when
invoked with or without various
.B \-prefer
switches.
The
.B \-prefer
switch is functionally most important for
.IR mhshow ,
but is also implemented in
.B mhlist
and
.B mhstore
to make common part numbering possible across all three programs.
.SS "Checking the Contents"
The
.B \-check
switch tells
.B mhlist
to check each content for an integrity checksum.  If a content has
such a checksum (specified as a Content-MD5 header field), then
.B mhlist
will attempt to verify the integrity of the content.
.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%nmhetcdir%/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^$HOME/\&.mh\(ruprofile~^The user profile
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^Path:~^To determine the user's nmh directory
^Current\-Folder:~^To find the default current folder
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mhbuild (1),
.IR mhshow (1),
.IR mhstore (1)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` +folder "' defaults to the current folder"
.RB ` msgs "' defaults to cur"
.RB ` \-nocheck '
.RB ` \-headers '
.RB ` \-realsize '
.RB ` \-rcache\ ask '
.RB ` \-wcache\ ask '
.RB ` \-changecur '
.RB ` \-noverbose '
.RB ` \-nodisposition '
.fi
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is given, it will become the current folder.  The last
message selected will become the current message, unless the
.B \-nochangecur
option is specified.
