.TH MHPARAM %manext1% 2017-02-18 "%nmhversion%"
.
.\" %nmhwarning%
.
.SH NAME
mhparam \- print nmh profile and context components
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B mhparam
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RI [ components ]
.RB [ \-all ]
.RB [ \-component " | " \-nocomponent ]
.RB [ \-debug ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mhparam
writes the value of the specified profile component to the standard
output, separated by newlines.  Component name matching is
case-insensitive.  If the profile component is not present, the
default value (or nothing, if there is no default) is printed.
.PP
If the switch
.B \-component
is given, then the component name is displayed along with the profile
components value.  This can be disabled with the switch
.BR \-nocomponent .
.PP
If more than one component is specified in the
.I components
list, then the switch
.B \-component
is on by default.  If only one component is specified, then the switch
.B \-nocomponent
is on by default.
.PP
If
.B \-all
is specified, then all components in the nmh profile are displayed
and other arguments are ignored.
.PP
.B mhparam
can provide other information, such as the
.B nmh
version identifier, the locations of the nmh
.IR bindir ,
.IR libexecdir ,
.IR etcdir ,
and
.I docdir
install directories, all
.I proc
settings, and the
.I datalocking
method described in
.IR mh\-profile (5).
Information about the configuration of the
.B nmh
installation is also available, including the default mail spool
locking method.  To test whether the configuration includes
support for SASL, TLS,
.IR iconv (3),
and oauth, the following commands, respectively, will output a non-null
string to indicate support:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
mhparam\0sasl
mhparam\0tls
mhparam\0iconv
mhparam\0oauth
.fi
.RE
.PP
Conversely, no output means that the specified support is not included.
The
.B \-debug
switch displays all such other information available from
.BR mhparam .
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'AliasFile:'u+2n
$ mhparam path
Mail

$ mhparam mhlproc
%nmhlibexecdir%/mhl

$ mhparam \-component Path
Path: Mail

$ mhparam AliasFile rmmproc
AliasFile: aliases
rmmproc: rmmproc

$ mhparam \-nocomponent AliasFile rmmproc
aliases
rmmproc

$ mhparam path nonexistent context
Path: Mail
context: context

$ mhparam version
%nmhversion%

$ mhparam etcdir
%nmhetcdir%

$ mhparam libexecdir
%nmhlibexecdir%

$ mhparam spoollocking
%default_locking%

$ mhparam datalocking
fcntl

$ mhparam sasl
cyrus_sasl

$ mhparam tls
tls

$ mhparam iconv
iconv

$ mhparam oauth
oauth
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B mhparam
is also useful in backquoted operations:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
$ fgrep cornell.edu \`mhpath +\`/\`mhparam aliasfile\`
.fi
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status is zero if all components are found,
or one if any are missing.
.
.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^$HOME/.mh_profile~^The user profile
^or $MH~^Rather than the standard profile
^<mh-dir>/context~^The user context
^or $MHCONTEXT~^Rather than the standard context
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^context:~^To determine the context file
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mh-profile (5)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` \-nocomponent "' if only one component is specified"
.RB ` \-component "' if more than one component is specified"
.RB ` components "' defaults to none"
.fi
.SH CONTEXT
None
