.TH MHSTORE %manext1% "March 21, 2013" "%nmhversion%"
.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\"
.SH NAME
mhstore \- store contents of MIME messages into files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B mhstore
.RI [ +folder ]
.RI [ msgs ]
.RB [ \-file
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-outfile
.IR outfile ]
.RB [ \-part
.IR number ]
\&...
.RB [ \-type
.IR content ]
\&...
.RB [ \-auto " | " \-noauto ]
.RB [ \-clobber
.IR always " | " auto " | " suffix " | " ask " | " never ]
.RB [ \-rcache
.IR policy ]
.RB [ \-wcache
.IR policy ]
.RB [ \-check " | " \-nocheck ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B mhstore
command allows you to store the contents of a
collection of MIME (multi-media) messages into files or other
messages.
.PP
.B mhstore
manipulates multi-media messages as specified in
RFC\-2045 to RFC\-2049.
.PP
By default,
.B mhstore
will store all the parts of each message.
Each part will be store in a separate file.  The header fields of
the message are not stored.  By using the
.B \-part
and
.B \-type
switches, you may limit the scope of
.B mhstore
to particular
subparts (of a multipart content) and/or particular content types.
.PP
The
.B \-file
.I file
switch directs
.B mhstore
to use the specified
file as the source message, rather than a message from a folder.
If you specify this file as \*(lq-\*(rq, then
.B mhstore
will
accept the source message on the standard input.  Note that the
file, or input from standard input should be a validly formatted
message, just like any other
.B nmh
message.  It should
.B NOT
be in mail drop format (to convert a file in mail drop format to
a folder of
.B nmh
messages, see
.IR inc (1)).
.PP
A part specification consists of a series of numbers separated by
dots.  For example, in a multipart content containing three parts,
these would be named as 1, 2, and 3, respectively.  If part 2 was
also a multipart content containing two parts, these would be named
as 2.1 and 2.2, respectively.  Note that the
.B \-part
switch is
effective for only messages containing a multipart content.  If a
message has some other kind of content, or if the part is itself
another multipart content, the
.B \-part
switch will not prevent
the content from being acted upon.
.PP
A content specification consists of a content type and a subtype.
The initial list of \*(lqstandard\*(rq content types and subtypes
can be found in RFC\-2046.
.PP
A list of commonly used contents is briefly reproduced here:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'application  'u
Type	Subtypes
----	--------
text	plain, enriched
multipart	mixed, alternative, digest, parallel
message	rfc822, partial, external-body
application	octet-stream, postscript
image	jpeg, gif, png
audio	basic
video	mpeg
.fi
.RE
.PP
A legal MIME message must contain a subtype specification.
.PP
To specify a content, regardless of its subtype, just use the name
of the content, e.g., \*(lqaudio\*(rq.  To specify a specific
subtype, separate the two with a slash, e.g., \*(lqaudio/basic\*(rq.
Note that regardless of the values given to the
.B \-type
switch,
a multipart content (of any subtype listed above) is always acted
upon.  Further note that if the
.B \-type
switch is used, and it is
desirable to act on a message/external-body content, then the
.B \-type
switch must be used twice: once for message/external-body
and once for the content externally referenced.
.SS "Checking the Contents"
The
.B \-check
switch tells
.B mhstore
to check each content for
an integrity checksum.  If a content has such a checksum (specified
as a Content-MD5 header field), then
.B mhstore
will attempt to
verify the integrity of the content.
.SS "Storing the Contents"
The
.B mhstore
will store the contents of the named messages in
\*(lqnative\*(rq (decoded) format.  Two things must be determined:
the directory to store the content, and the filenames.  Files are
written in the directory given by the \*(lqnmh-storage\*(rq profile
entry, e.g.,
.PP
.RS 5
nmh-storage: /tmp
.RE
.PP
If this entry isn't present,
the current working directory is used.
.PP
If the
.B \-outfile
switch is given, its argument is used for the filename to store all
of the content, with \*(lq-\*(rq indicating standard output.  If the
.B \-auto
switch is given, then
.B mhstore
will check if the message contains information indicating the filename
that should be used to store the content.  This information should be
specified as the \*(lqfilename\*(rq attribute in the
\*(lqContent-Disposition\*(rq header or as the \*(lqname\*(rq
attribute in the \*(lqContent-Type\*(rq header for the content you are
storing.  For security reasons, this filename will be ignored if it
begins with the character '/', '.', '|', or '!', or if it contains the
character '%'.  For the sake of security, this switch is not the
default, and it is recommended that you do NOT put the
.B \-auto
switch in your
.I \&.mh\(ruprofile
file.
.PP
If the
.B \-auto
switch is not given (or is being ignored for security
reasons) then
.B mhstore
will look in the user's profile for a
\*(lqformatting string\*(rq to determine how the different contents
should be stored.  First,
.B mhstore
will look for an entry of
the form:
.PP
.RS 5
mhstore-store-<type>/<subtype>
.RE
.PP
to determine the formatting string.  If this isn't found,
.B mhstore
will look for an entry of the form:
.PP
.RS 5
mhstore-store-<type>
.RE
.PP
to determine the formatting string.
.PP
If the formatting string starts with a \*(lq+\*(rq character, then
content is stored in the named folder.  A formatting string consisting
solely of a \*(lq+\*(rq character is interpreted to be the current
folder.
.PP
If the formatting string consists solely of a \*(lq-\*(rq character,
then the content is sent to the standard output.
.PP
If the formatting string starts with a '|', then the display string
will represent a command for
.B mhstore
to execute which should
ultimately store the content.  The content will be passed to the
standard input of the command.  Before the command is executed,
.B mhstore
will change to the appropriate directory, and any
escapes (given below) in the display string will be expanded.
.PP
Otherwise the formatting string will represent a pathname in which
to store the content.  If the formatting string starts with a '/',
then the content will be stored in the full path given, else the
file name will be relative to the value of \*(lqnmh-storage\*(rq or
the current working directory.  Any escapes (given below) will be
expanded, except for the a-escape.  Note that if \*(lqnmh-storage\*(rq
is not an absolute path, it will be relative to the folder that
contains the message(s).
.PP
A command or pathname formatting string may contain the following
escapes.  If the content isn't part of a multipart (of any subtype
listed above) content, the p-escapes are ignored.
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'%P  'u
%a	Parameters from Content-type  (only valid with command)
%m	Insert message number
%P	Insert part number with leading dot
%p	Insert part number without leading dot
%t	Insert content type
%s	Insert content subtype
%%	Insert character %
.fi
.RE
.PP
If no formatting string is found,
.B mhstore
will check to see
if the content is application/octet-stream with parameter
\*(lqtype=tar\*(rq.  If so,
.B mhstore
will choose an appropriate
filename.  If the content is not application/octet-stream, then
.B mhstore
will check to see if the content is a message.  If
so,
.B mhstore
will use the value \*(lq+\*(rq.  As a last resort,
.B mhstore
will use the value \*(lq%m%P.%s\*(rq.
.PP
Example profile entries might be:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
mhstore-store-text: %m%P.txt
mhstore-store-text: +inbox
mhstore-store-message/partial: +
mhstore-store-audio/basic: | raw2audio -e ulaw -s 8000 -c 1 > %m%P.au
mhstore-store-image/jpeg: %m%P.jpg
mhstore-store-application/PostScript: %m%P.ps
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SS "Overwriting Existing Files"
The
.B \-clobber
switch controls whether
.B mhstore
should overwrite existing files.  The allowed values for this switch
and corresponding behavior when
.B mhstore
encounters an existing file are:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
.ta \w'suffix  'u
always    Overwrite existing file (default)
auto      Create new file of form name-n.extension
suffix    Create new file of form name.extension.n
ask       Prompt the user to specify whether or not to overwrite
          the existing file
never     Do not overwrite existing file
.fi
.RE
.PP
With
.I auto
and
.IR suffix ,
.I n
is the lowest unused number, starting from one, in the same form.  If
a filename does not have an extension (following a '.'), then
.I auto
and
.I suffix
create a new file of the form
.I name-n
and
.IR name.n ,
respectively.  With
.I never
and
.IR ask ,
the exit status of
.B mhstore
will be the number of files that were requested but not stored.
.PP
With
.IR ask ,
if standard input is connected to a terminal,
the user is prompted to respond
.IR yes ,
.IR no ,
or
.I rename
to whether the file should be overwritten.  The responses
can be abbreviated.  If the user responds with
.IR rename ,
then
.B mhstore
prompts the user for the name of the new file to be created.  If it is
a relative path name (does not begin with '/'), then it is relative to
the current directory.  If it is an absolute or relative path to a
directory that does not exist, the user will be prompted whether to
create the directory.  If standard input is not connected to a
terminal,
.I ask
behaves the same as
.IR always .
.SS "Reassembling Messages of Type message/partial"
.B mhstore
is also able to reassemble messages that have been
split into multiple messages of type \*(lqmessage/partial\*(rq.
.PP
When asked to store a content containing a partial message,
.B mhstore
will try to locate all of the portions and combine
them accordingly.  The default is to store the combined parts as
a new message in the current folder, although this can be changed
using formatting strings as discussed above.  Thus, if someone has
sent you a message in several parts (such as the output from
.BR sendfiles ),
you can easily reassemble them all into a single
message in the following fashion:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
% mhlist 5-8
 msg part  type/subtype             size description
   5       message/partial           47K part 1 of 4
   6       message/partial           47K part 2 of 4
   7       message/partial           47K part 3 of 4
   8       message/partial           18K part 4 of 4
% mhstore 5-8
reassembling partials 5,6,7,8 to folder inbox as message 9
% mhlist -verbose 9
 msg part  type/subtype             size description
   9       application/octet-stream 118K
             (extract with uncompress | tar xvpf -)
             type=tar
             conversions=compress
.fi
.RE
.PP
This will store exactly one message, containing the sum of the
parts.  It doesn't matter whether the partials are specified in
order, since
.B mhstore
will sort the partials, so that they
are combined in the correct order.  But if
.B mhstore
can not
locate every partial necessary to reassemble the message, it will
not store anything.
.SS "External Access"
For contents of type message/external-body,
\fImhstore\fR supports these access-types:
.PP
.IP \(bu 4
afs
.IP \(bu 4
anon-ftp
.IP \(bu 4
ftp
.IP \(bu 4
local-file
.IP \(bu 4
mail-server
.IP \(bu 4
url
.PP
For the \*(lqanon-ftp\*(rq and \*(lqftp\*(rq access types,
.B mhstore
will look for the \*(lqnmh-access-ftp\*(rq
profile entry, e.g.,
.PP
.RS 5
nmh-access-ftp: myftp.sh
.RE
.PP
to determine the pathname of a program to perform the FTP retrieval.
This program is invoked with these arguments:
.PP
.RS 5
.nf
domain name of FTP-site
username
password
remote directory
remote filename
local filename
\*(lqascii\*(rq or \*(lqbinary\*(rq
.fi
.RE
.PP
The program should terminate with an exit status of zero if the
retrieval is successful, and a non-zero exit status otherwise.
.PP
For the \*(lqurl\*(rq access types,
.B mhstore
will look for the \*(lqnmh-access-url\*(rq profile entry, e.g.,
.PP
.RS 5
nmh-access-url: curl -l
.RE
.PP
to determine the program to use to perform the HTTP retrieval.  This program
is invoked with one argument: the URL of the content to retrieve.  The program
should write the content to standard out, and should terminate with a status of zero if the retrieval is successful and a non\-zero exit status otherwise.
.PP
.SS "The Content Cache"
When
.B mhstore
encounters an external content containing a
\*(lqContent-ID:\*(rq field, and if the content allows caching, then
depending on the caching behavior of
.BR mhstore ,
the content might be read from or written to a cache.
.PP
The caching behavior of
.B mhstore
is controlled with the
.B \-rcache
and
.B \-wcache
switches, which define the policy for reading from,
and writing to, the cache, respectively.  One of four policies may be
specified: \*(lqpublic\*(rq, indicating that
.B mhstore
should make use
of a publically-accessible content cache; \*(lqprivate\*(rq, indicating
that
.B mhstore
should make use of the user's private content cache;
\*(lqnever\*(rq, indicating that
.B mhstore
should never make use of
caching; and, \*(lqask\*(rq, indicating that
.B mhstore
should ask the user.
.PP
There are two directories where contents may be cached: the profile entry
\*(lqnmh-cache\*(rq names a directory containing world-readable contents, and,
the profile entry \*(lqnmh-private-cache\*(rq names a directory containing
private contents.  The former should be an absolute (rooted) directory
name.
.PP
For example,
.PP
.RS 5
nmh-cache: /tmp
.RE
.PP
might be used if you didn't care that the cache got wiped after each
reboot of the system.  The latter is interpreted relative to the user's
nmh directory, if not rooted, e.g.,
.PP
.RS 5
nmh-private-cache: .cache
.RE
.PP
(which is the default value).
.SS "User Environment"
Because the display environment in which
.B mhstore
operates may vary for
different machines,
.B mhstore
will look for the environment variable
.BR $MHSTORE .
If present, this specifies the name of an additional
user profile which should be read.  Hence, when a user logs in on a
particular machine, this environment variable should be set to
refer to a file containing definitions useful for that machine.
Finally,
.B mhstore
will attempt to consult one other additional
user profile, e.g.,
.PP
.RS 5
%etcdir%/mhn.defaults
.RE
.PP
which is created automatically during
.B nmh
installation.
.SH FILES
.B mhstore
looks for additional profile files in multiple locations: absolute
pathnames are accessed directly, tilde expansion is done on usernames,
and files are searched for in the user's
.I Mail
directory as specified in their profile.  If not found there, the directory
.RI \*(lq %etcdir% \*(rq
is checked.
.PP
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%etcdir%/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^$HOME/\&.mh\(ruprofile~^The user profile
^$MHSTORE~^Additional profile entries
^%etcdir%/mhn.defaults~^System default MIME profile entries
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^Path:~^To determine the user's nmh directory
^Current\-Folder:~^To find the default current folder
^nmh-access-ftp:~^Program to retrieve contents via FTP
^nmh-access-url:~^Program to retrieve contents via HTTP
^nmh-cache~^Public directory to store cached external contents
^nmh-private-cache~^Personal directory to store cached external contents
^nmh-storage~^Directory to store contents
^mhstore-store-<type>*~^Template for storing contents
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mhbuild (1),
.IR mhlist (1),
.IR mhshow (1),
.IR sendfiles (1)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` +folder "' defaults to the current folder"
.RB ` msgs "' defaults to cur"
.RB ` \-noauto '
.RB ` \-clobber\ always '
.RB ` \-nocheck '
.RB ` \-rcache\ ask '
.RB ` \-wcache\ ask '
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is given, it will become the current folder.  The last
message selected will become the current message.
.SH BUGS
Partial messages contained within a multipart content are not reassembled.
