.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH MSGCHK %manext1% "%nmhdate%" MH.6.8 [%nmhversion%]
.SH NAME
msgchk \- check for messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B msgchk
.RB [ \-date " | " \-nodate ]
.RB [ \-notify
all/mail/nomail ]
.RB [ \-nonotify
all/mail/nomail ]
%nmhbeginpop%
.RB [ \-host
.IR hostname ]
.RB [ \-user
.IR username ]
.RB [ \-apop " | " \-noapop ]
.RB [ \-kpop ]
.RB [ \-sasl ]
.RB [ \-saslmech
.IR mechanism ]
.RB [ \-snoop ]
%nmhendpop%
.RI [ users
\&... ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B msgchk
program checks all known mail drops for mail waiting
for you.  For those drops which have mail for you,
.B msgchk
will
indicate if it believes that you have seen the mail in question before.
.PP
The
.B \-notify
.I type
switch indicates under what circumstances
.B msgchk
should produce a message.  The default is
.B \-notify
.I all
which says that
.B msgchk
should always report the status of the
users maildrop.  Other values for `type' include `mail' which says that
.B msgchk
should report the status of waiting mail; and, `nomail'
which says that
.B msgchk
should report the status of empty maildrops.
The
.B \-nonotify
.I type
switch has the inverted sense, so
.B \-nonotify
.I all
directs
.B msgchk
to never report the status of
maildrops.  This is useful if the user wishes to check
.BR msgchk 's
exit status.  A non\-zero exit status indicates that mail was
.B not
waiting for at least one of the indicated users.
.PP
If
.B msgchk
produces output, then the
.B \-date
switch directs
.B msgchk
to print out the last date mail was read, if this can
be determined.
%nmhbeginpop%
 
.SS "Using POP"
.B msgchk
will normally check all the local mail drops, but if
the option \*(lqpophost:\*(rq is set in the mts configuration file
\*(lqmts.conf\*(rq, or if the
.B \-host
.I hostname
switch is given,
.B msgchk
will query this POP service host as to the status of
mail waiting.
.PP
The default is for
.B msgchk
to assume that your account name
on the POP server is the same as your current username.  To specify
a different username, use the `\-user\ username' switch.
.PP
When using POP, you will normally need to type the password for
your account on the POP server, in order to retrieve your messages.
It is possible to automate this process by creating a
.RI \*(lq \&.netrc \*(rq
file containing your login account information for this POP server.
For each POP server, this file should have a line of the following
form.  Replace the words
.IR mypopserver ,
.IR mylogin ,
and
.I mypassword
with
your own account information.
.PP
.RS 5
machine
.I mypopserver
login
.I mylogin
password
.I mypassword
.RE
.PP
This
.RI \*(lq \&.netrc \*(rq
file should be owned and readable only by you.
.PP
For debugging purposes, there is also a switch
.BR \-snoop ,
which will
allow you to watch the POP transaction take place between you and the
POP server.
.PP
If
.B nmh
has been compiled with APOP support, the
.B \-apop
switch will cause
.B msgchk
to use APOP rather than standard POP3 authentication.  Under APOP,
a unique string (generally of the format
.RI < pid . timestamp @ hostname >)
is announced by the POP server.
Rather than `USER
.IR user ',
`PASS
.IR password ',
.B msgchk
sends `APOP
.I user
.IR digest ',
where digest is the MD5 hash of the unique string
followed by a `secret' shared by client and server, essentially equivalent to
the user's password (though an APOP-enabled POP3 server could have separate APOP
and plain POP3 passwords for a single user). 
.B \-noapop
disables APOP in cases
where it'd otherwise be used.
.PP
If
.B nmh
has been compiled with KPOP support, the
.B \-kpop
switch will allow
.B msgchk
to use Kerberized POP rather than standard POP3 on a given
invocation.  If
.B POPSERVICE
was also #defined to "kpop",
.B msgchk
will be
hardwired to always use KPOP.
.PP
If
.B nmh
has been compiled with SASL support, the
.B \-sasl
switch will enable
the use of SASL authentication.  Depending on the SASL mechanism used, this
may require an additional password prompt from the user (but the
.RI \*(lq \&.netrc \*(rq
file can be used to store this password).  The
.B \-saslmech
switch can be used to select a particular SASL mechanism.
.PP
If SASL authentication is successful,
.B inc
will attempt to negotiate
a security layer for session encryption.  Encrypted traffic is labelled
with `(encrypted)' and `(decrypted)' when viewing the POP transaction
with the
.B \-snoop
switch.
%nmhendpop%

.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%etcdir%/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^$HOME/\&.mh\(ruprofile~^The user profile
^%etcdir%/mts.conf~^nmh mts configuration file
^%mailspool%/$USER~^Location of mail drop
.fi

.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
None
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
inc(1)

.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` user "' defaults to the current user"
.RB ` \-date '
.RB ` "\-notify\ all" '
.fi

.SH CONTEXT
None
