.TH NEXT %manext1% "January 9, 2001" "%nmhversion%"
.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\"
.SH NAME
next \- show the next message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B next 
.RI [ +folder ]
.RB [\-showproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-showmimeproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-header " | " \-noheader ]
.RB [ \-checkmime " | " \-nocheckmime ]
[switches\ for
.I showproc
or
.IR showmimeproc ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Next
performs a
.B show
on the next message in the specified
(or current) folder.  Like
.BR show ,
it passes any switches on to
the program
.I showproc
or
.IR showmimeproc ,
which is called to list
the message.  This command is almost exactly equivalent to
.RB \*(lq show
.BR next \*(rq.
Consult the manual entry for
.IR show (1)
for all the
details.
.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%etcdir%/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^$HOME/\&.mh\(ruprofile~^The user profile
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^Path:~^To determine the user's nmh directory
^Current\-Folder:~^To find the default current folder
^showproc:~^Program to show non-MIME messages
^showmimeproc:~^Program to show MIME messages
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR prev (1),
.IR show (1)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` +folder "' defaults to the current folder"
.RB ` \-checkmime '
.RB ` \-header '
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is specified, it will become the current folder.  The message
that is shown (i.e., the next message in sequence) will become the
current message.
.SH BUGS
.B next
is really a link to the
.B show
program.  As a result, if
you make a link to
.B next
and that link is not called
.BR next ,
your link will act like
.B show
instead.  To circumvent this, add a
profile\-entry for the link to your
.B nmh
profile and add the argument
.I next
to the entry.
