.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\" $Id$
.\"
.TH PACKF %manext1% "%nmhdate%" MH.6.8 [%nmhversion%]
.SH NAME
packf \- pack messages in nmh folder into a single file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.B packf
.RI [ +folder ]
.RI [ msgs ]
.RB [ \-file
.IR name ]
.RB [ \-mbox ]
.RB [ \-mmdf ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RB [ \-help ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Packf
will pack copies of messages from a folder, into a single
file.
.PP
If the
.B \-mbox
switch is given (the default), then the messages are
separated using mbox (uucp) style delimiters.  This is the format used
by most mail clients (elm, mailx, etc.).
.PP
If the
.B \-mmdf
switch is given, then the messages are separated by
mmdf style delimiters.  Each message in the file is separated by four
CTRL\-A's and a newline.
.PP
You may specify the name of the file in which to use with the
.B \-file
.I name
switch.  If you do not specify the name of the file, it
will default to
.RI \*(lq msgbox \*(rq.
.PP
If the given file name points to an existing file, then the specified
messages will be appended to the end of the file, otherwise the file
will be created and the messages appended.
.PP
.B packf
makes an mbox-style delimiter by examining the first line
of the message.  If the first line is a \*(lqReturn-Path\*(rq
field, its address and the current date and time are used.  Otherwise,
if the first line has an \*(lqX-Envelope-From\*(rq field, its
contents (which should already be in the correct format) are used. 
Otherwise, a dummy address and the current date and time are used.
.PP
Messages that are packed by
.B packf
can be unpacked using
.BR inc .

.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/local/nmh/etc/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^$HOME/\&.mh\(ruprofile~^The user profile
^\&.msgbox\&.map~^A binary index of the file
.fi

.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^Path:~^To determine the user's nmh directory
^Current\-Folder:~^To find the default current folder
^Msg\-Protect:~^To set mode when creating a new `file'
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
inc(1)

.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` +folder "' defaults to the current folder"
.RB ` msgs "' defaults to all"
.RB ` \-mbox '
.RB ` "\-file ./msgbox" '
.fi

.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is given, it will become the current folder.  The first
message packed will become the current message.
.En
