.TH PREV %manext1% 1999-04-30 "%nmhversion%"
.
.\" %nmhwarning%
.
.SH NAME
prev \- show the previous nmh message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B prev
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RI [ +folder ]
.RB [ \-showproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-showmimeproc
.IR program ]
.RB [ \-header " | " \-noheader ]
.RB [ \-checkmime " | " \-nocheckmime ]
[switches\ for
.I showproc
or
.IR showmimeproc ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prev
performs a
.B show
on the previous message in the specified
(or current) folder.  Like
.BR show ,
it passes any switches on to
the program named by
.I showproc
or
.IR showmimeproc ,
which is called
to list the message.  This command is almost exactly equivalent to
.RB \*(lq "show prev" \*(rq.
Consult the manual entry for
.IR show (1)
for all the details.
.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%nmhetcdir%/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^$HOME/.mh_profile~^The user profile
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^Path:~^To determine the user's nmh directory
^Current\-Folder:~^To find the default current folder
^showproc:~^Program to show non-MIME messages
^showmimeproc:~^Program to show MIME messages
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR next (1),
.IR show (1)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` +folder "' defaults to the current folder"
.RB ` \-checkmime '
.RB ` \-header '
.fi
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is specified, it will become the current folder.  The message
that is shown (i.e., the previous message in sequence) will become the
current message.
.SH BUGS
.B prev
is really a link to the
.B show
program.  As a result, if
you make a link to
.B prev
and that link is not called
.BR prev ,
your link will act like
.B show
instead.  To circumvent this, add a
profile-entry for the link to your
.B nmh
profile and add the argument
.B prev
to the entry.
