.TH RCVSTORE %manext1% "February 18, 2013" "%nmhversion%"
.\"
.\" %nmhwarning%
.\"
.SH NAME
rcvstore \- asynchronously incorporate mail into a folder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 5
.na
.B %nmhlibexecdir%/rcvstore
.RB [ \-help ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.RI [ +folder ]
.RB [ \-create " | " \-nocreate ]
.RB [ \-unseen " | " \-nounseen ]
.RB [ \-zero " | " \-nozero ]
.RB [ \-sequence
.I name
\&...]
.RB [ \-public " | " \-nopublic ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Rcvstore
incorporates a message from the standard input into an
.B nmh
folder.  This command is typically used in conjunction with
mail filtering programs such as
.B slocal
and
.BR procmail ,
to filter your mail into different folders.
.PP
You may specify which folder to use with
.IR +folder .
If no folder is specified,
.B rcvstore
will use the folder given by a non\-empty
\*(lqInbox:\*(rq entry in the user's profile, else it will use the folder
named \*(lqinbox\*(rq.
.PP
If the switch
.B \-create
is given (it is the default) and if the specified
(or default) folder does not exist, then it will be created.  You may
disable this with the
.B \-nocreate
option.  In this case
.B rcvstore
will exit if the specified folder does not exist.
.PP
When the new message is incorporated into the folder, it is assigned
the next highest number for that folder.
.PP
.B Rcvstore
will incorporate anything except zero length messages
into the user's
.B nmh
folder.  It will not change the message in any
way.
.PP
If the user's profile contains a
.RI \*(lq "Msg\-Protect: nnn" \*(rq
entry, it will be used as the protection on the newly created
message, otherwise the
.B nmh
default of 0600 will be used (on filesystems that support it).  For
all subsequent operations on this message, this initially assigned
protection will be preserved.
.PP
If the switch
.B \-unseen
is given (it is on by default), and if the
profile entry \*(lqUnseen\-Sequence\*(rq is present and non\-empty, then
.B rcvstore
will add the newly incorporated message to each sequence
named by this profile entry.  You may use the switch
.B \-nounseen
to disable this.  These sequences will not be zero'ed by
.B rcvstore
prior to adding the new message.
.PP
Furthermore, the incoming message may be added to additional sequences
as they arrive by the use of the
.B \-sequence
switch.  As with the
commands
.B pick
and
.BR mark ,
you may also use the switches
.B \-zero
and
.B \-nozero
to specify whether to zero old sequences or not.
Similarly, use of the
.B \-public
and
.B \-nopublic
switches may be used
to force these sequences to be public or private sequences.
.SS LOCKING AND \-unseen
If you use the \*(lqUnseen-Sequence\*(rq profile entry, rcvstore could
try to read and update its sequence state while another
.B nmh
process is also trying to do so.  This can cause the sequence state to
lose track.  To avoid this just between asynchronous invocations of
.BR rcvstore ,
do not use it without an external locking mechanism, for example, a
.IR procmailrc (5)
local lockfile, if you use the \*(lqUnseen-Sequence\*(rq profile
entry.
.SH FILES
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta \w'%nmhetcdir%/ExtraBigFileName  'u
^$HOME/\&.mh\(ruprofile~^The user profile
.fi
.SH "PROFILE COMPONENTS"
.fc ^ ~
.nf
.ta 2.4i
.ta \w'ExtraBigProfileName  'u
^Path:~^To determine the user's nmh directory
^Folder\-Protect:~^To set mode when creating a new folder
^Inbox:~^To find the default inbox
^Msg\-Protect:~^To set mode when creating a new message
^Unseen\-Sequence:~^To name sequences denoting unseen messages
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR rcvdist (1),
.IR rcvpack (1),
.IR rcvtty (1),
.IR mh\-sequence (5),
.IR procmailex (5),
.IR procmailrc (5)
.SH DEFAULTS
.nf
.RB ` +folder "' defaults to \*(lqInbox\*(rq profile entry"
.RB ` \-create '
.RB ` \-unseen '
.RB ` \-nozero '
.fi
.SH CONTEXT
No context changes will be attempted, with the exception of
sequence manipulation.
