.TH COMP 1 RAND
.SH NAME
comp \- compose a message

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B comp 
\%[
.B \-editor\ \fReditor] \%[
.B \-form\ \fRformfile] \%[file] \%[
.B \-use
] \%[
.B \-nouse
] \%[
.B \-help
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIComp\fP is used to create a new message to be mailed.
If
\fIfile\fP is not specified, the file named ``draft'' in the user's MH
directory will be used.
\fIComp\fR copies a message form to
the file being composed and then invokes an editor on the
file.
The default editor is /bin/e, which may be overridden with
the `\-editor' switch or with a profile entry ``Editor:''.

The default
message form contains the following elements:

     To:
     cc:
     Subject:
     ----------

If the file named ``components'' exists in the user's MH directory,
it will be used instead of this form.
If `\-form
formfile' is specified, the specified formfile (from the MH
directory) will be used as the skeleton.
The line of dashes
or a blank line must be left between the header and the
body of the message for the message to be identified properly when it is
sent (see \fIsend(1)\fR).
The switch `\-use' directs \fIcomp\fR to
continue editing an already started message.
That is, if a
\fIcomp\fR (or \fIdist\fR, \fIrepl\fR, or \fIforw\fR) is terminated without
sending the message, the message can be edited again via
``comp \-use''.

If the specified file (or draft) already exists, \fIcomp\fR will ask
if you want to delete it before continuing.
A reply of \fBNo\fR will abort the
\fIcomp\fR, \fByes\fR will replace the existing draft with a blank
skeleton, \fBlist\fR will display the draft, and \fBuse\fR will use it
for further composition.

Upon exiting from the editor, \fIcomp\fR will ask ``What now?''.
The valid
responses are \fBlist\fR, to list the draft on the terminal; \fBquit\fR, to
terminate the session and preserve the draft; \fBquit delete\fR, to terminate,
then delete the draft; \fBsend\fR, to send the message; \fBsend verbose\fR, to
cause the delivery process to be monitored; \fBedit <editor>\fR, to invoke
<editor> for further editing; and \fBedit\fR, to re-edit using the
same editor that was used on the preceding round unless a profile
entry ``<lasteditor>\-next: <editor>'' names an alternative editor.

See \fImh-profile(5)\fR for further information
about the how editors are used by MH.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
/etc/mh/components		The message skeleton
.br
or <mh-dir>/components		Rather than the standard 
.br
$HOME/\*.mh\(ruprofile		The user profile
.br
<mh-dir>/draft			The default message file
.br
/usr/bin/send			To send the composed message
.SH PROFILE\ ELEMENTS
Path:			To determine the user's MH directory
.br
Editor:			To override the default editor
.br
<lasteditor>\-next:	To name an editor to be used 
			after exit from <lasteditor>
sendproc:	Program to use to send the message
.SH SEE ALSO
send(1), dist(1), repl(1)
.SH DEFAULTS
`file' defaults to draft
.br
`\-editor' defaults to /bin/e
.br
`\-nouse'
.SH CONTEXT
\fIComp\fR does not affect either the current folder or the current messa