.TH DELIVER 8 RAND
.SH NAME
deliver \- deliver a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mh/deliver 
[\fB\-deliver\fR user]
[\fB\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-format\fR] [\fB\-msgid\fR]
[\fB\-help\fR]  [\fB\-noverbose\fR] [\fB\-noformat\fR] [\fB\-nomsgid\fR] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Deliver 
is the program called by 
.I send(1)
to deliver the message in
.I file
to a local or remote user.  In fact,
all of the functions attributed to 
.I send
on its manual page are peformed by 
.I deliver,
with
.I send
acting as a relatively simple preprocessor.  Thus, it is
.I deliver
which parses the various header fields, appends From: and 
Date: lines, and maintains the correct locking on maildrop
files.  
.I Deliver
will not normally be called directly by the user.
.PP
.I Deliver
searches the ``To:'', ``Bcc:'', and ``Fcc:'' header lines of
the specified message for destination addresses, checks these
addresses for validity, and formats them so as to conform to 
Arpanet Mail protocol, unless the 
.I \-noformat
flag is set.  This will normally cause ``AT local-site'' to
be appended to each local destination address, as well
as any local return addresses..  Destinations are
of three types:
.PP
LOCAL MAIL (e.g. ``To: root''): The message is appended to the 
appropriate mailbox.  The specified name may be mapped
into a different user name if it matches an entry in the
file /etc/MailAlias.  See mh-alias(5) for additional details on the
aliasing system..
If the recipient user's home directory contains an 
executable or shell file named .mh\(rureceive, that program will be
called via

	execlp (prog, prog, tmpfil, mail, home, alias, 0)

where prog is the receive program, tmpfil is a file in
/usr/tmp which is the mail to be received, mail is the path of
the user's mail drop (/usr/spool/mail/name), home is the
$HOME directory of the user, and alias is the string that matched
the first in a sequence of local aliases.  File descriptor 3 will have
tmpfil opened on it read only.  These are all the RECEIVER'S
parameters, not the sender's.  Also, the environment is set up
with appropriate values for HOME and USER.
.PP
ARPANET MAIL (e.g. ``To: root@bbn-unix''): A copy of the message is 
left as a uniquely-named file 
in the Arpanet mail queue directory (/usr/spool/netmail/), 
with the text prepended
by a list of the network addresses of the recipients.  The
format of this queue file is given in 
.I netmail(5).
The file is picked up by an Arpanet mailer daemon (
.I mailer(8)
)
for later processing.
.PP
UUCP MAIL (e.g. ``To: ucbvax!root''): Uux(1) is forked with the 
.I file 
as
its standard input, so as to execute mail(1) at the remote site.
Thus, a message with a field such as given in the example would
be given as standard input with a command line of

	uux \- ucbvax!rmail root

Rmail is assumed to be linked to mail(1) (or an equivalent program
such as the UC Berkeley or Bell mail programs)
so as to correctly deliver the
message at the remote site.
.PP
It is possible to have all three types of destinations in the various
destination fields of the message; each destination is processed
separately.  It is also possible to mix destinations from the
two delivery networks.  For example, one might specify a destination
of ``csvax!root@Berkeley''.  However, there is an ambiguity here as
to whether 
.I deliver
should attempt to use the Arpanet to send the message to Berkeley
with ``csvax!root'' as the recipient, or whether it should use uux
to tell csvax to deliver mail to ``root@Berkeley''.  The choice
is determined by a compile-time constant which tells whether
or not the local machine is on the Arpanet.  If it is, the message
is sent via the Arpanet to the remote host, which presumably
forwards the message via uux.  Otherwise the at-sign is given
no special treatment,
and the message is sent via uux.
.PP
If the 
.B \-deliver
flag is set, 
.I deliver
will attempt to send the message to the appropriate user
with no formatting or header processing.  As this is primarily
for the use of the 
.I rmail(1)
command, use of this flag is restricted to the super-user.
.ta 2.4i
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/mail/*	Recipient mail drop
.br
/usr/spool/locks/*	Lockout for the mail drop
.br
/usr/spool/netmail/*	Arpanet mail queue
.br
/usr/spool/mailt/*      Arpanet temp mail queue
.br
/usr/tmp/mh/locsXXXX.tmpTemporary local output file
.br
/usr/tmp/mh/uulcXXXX.tmpTemporary uucp output file
.br
/etc/MailAliases	Alias list
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
fileproc:	Used for Fcc: processing
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIThe MH Message Handling System: User's Manual\fR
by B. Borden, R. Gaines, and N. Shapiro
.br
\fIStandard for the Format of ARPA Network Test Messages\fR
by D. Crocker, J. Vittal, K. Pogran, and D. Henderson, Jr.
.br
send(1)
.br
mail(1)
.br
rmail(1)
.br
uux(1)
.br
netmail(5)
.br
mh-mail(5)
.br
mh-alias(5)
.SH DEFAULTS
.br
`\-noverbose'
.br
`\-format'
.br
`\-nomsgid'
.SH BUGS
If the message is going through a series of hops (say, via UUCP links),
the "From" field will not be adequate for a reply.  Deliver should,
but currently does not, formulate a "Reply-to:" field for such
compicated cases.
