.TH DIST 1 RAND
.SH NAME
dist \- redistribute a message to additional addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdist\ \fR
\%[\fB+folder\fR] 
\%[msg] 
\%[\fB\-form\fR\ formfile] 
\%[\fB\-editor\fR\ editor]
\%[\fB\-annotate\fR]
\%[\fB\-noannotate\fR] 
\%[\fB\-inplace\fR] 
\%[\fB\-noinplace\fR] 
\%[\fB\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIDist\fR is similar to \fIforw\fR.
It prepares the specified
message for redistribution to addresses that (presumably) are
not on the original address list.
The file ``distcomps'' in the
user's MH directory, or a standard form, or the file specified by
`\-form formfile' will be used as the blank components file to
be prepended to the message being distributed.
The standard form
has the components ``Distribute-to:'' and ``Distribute-cc:''.
When
the message is sent, ``Distribution-Date:\ date'',
``Distribution-From:\ name'', and
``Distribution-Id:\ id'' (if `\-msgid' is
specified to \fIsend(1)\fR;) will be prepended to the outgoing message.
Only those addresses in ``Distribute-To'', ``Distribute-cc'', and
``Distribute-Bcc'' will be sent.
Also, a ``Distribute-Fcc:\ folder''
will be honored (see \fIsend(1)\fR).

\fISend\fR recognizes a message as a redistribution message by the
existence of the field ``Distribute-To:'', so don't try to
redistribute a message with only a ``Distribute-cc:''.

If the `\-annotate' switch is given, each message being
distributed will be annotated with the lines:

     Distributed:\ <<date>>
     Distributed:\ Distribute-to: names

where each ``to'' list contains as many lines as required.
This annotation
will be done only if the message is sent directly from \fIdist\fR.
If the
message is not sent immediately from \fIdist\fR (i.e., if it is sent later
via \fIsend\fR),
``comp \-use'' may be used to re-edit and send the constructed message, but
the annotations won't take place.
The '\-inplace' switch causes annotation to
be done in place in order to preserve links to the annotated message.

See \fIcomp(1)\fR for a description of the `\-editor' switch and for options
upon exiting from the editor.
See \fImh-profile(5)\fR for further information
about the how editors are used by MH.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
/etc/mh/components	The message skeleton
.br
or <mh-dir>/components	Rather than the standard skeleton
.br
$HOME/.mh\(ruprofile	The user profile
.br
<mh-dir>/draft	The default message file
.br
/usr/ucb/send	To send the composed message
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
Path:	To determine the user's MH directory
.br
Editor:	To override the use of /bin/ned as the default editor
.br
<lasteditor>\-next:	To name an editor to be used 
			after exit from <lasteditor>
.br
sendproc:		Program to use for Send
.SH SEE ALSO
comp(1), deliver(8)
.SH DEFAULTS
`+folder' defaults to the current folder
.br
`msg' defaults to cur
.br
`\-editor' defaults to /bin/ned
.br
`\-noannotate'
.br
`\-noinplace'
.SH CONTEXT
If a +folder is specified, it will become the current
folder, and the current message will be set to the message
being redistr