.TH MH\(ruPROFILE 5 RAND
.SH NAME
mh\(ruprofile \- User parameters for MH message handler
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each user of
.I mh
is expected to have a file named
.B .mh\(ruprofile
in his or her home directory.  This file contains a set of
user parameters used by some or all of the
.I mh
family of programs.  Each line of the file is of the format
.TP 15
\fIprofile-component\fR: \fIvalue\fR
The currently defined profile components are exemplified below:
.TP
Path: Mail
Locates mh transactions in directory "Mail".
.TP
Current-Folder: inbox
Keeps track of currently open folder.
.TP
Editor: /bin/e
Defines editor to be used by 
.I comp(1),
.I repl(1),
.I forw(1),
and
.I dist(1).
.br
.B NOTE:
.I repl(1)
invokes the editor with two file arguments.
The second is intended
to be used as an `alternate' file.
If the editor used doesn't have this feature, it must
ignore the extra file argument and edit the first
file argument.
.TP
Msg\-Protect: 644
Defines octal protection bits for message files.  See 
.I chmod(1)
for an explanation of the octal number.
.TP
Folder\-Protect: 711
Defines protection bits for folder directories.
.TP
\fIprogram\fR: default switches
Sets default switches to be used whenever the mh program
.I program
is invoked.  For example, one could override the 
	.I Editor:
profile component when replying to messages by adding a
component such as:
.br
	repl: -editor /bin/ed
.TP
cur\-\fIread-onlyfolder\fR: 172
Keeps track of the last message seen in the specified read-only
folder.  In folders to which write access is permitted, the
current-message value is kept in a file called "cur" within
that folder.
.TP
news\-\fInews-topic\fR: 12
Keeps track of the last message seen in the specified news topic.
.TP
News\-Topics: news topics
Sets the news topics to be selected by default for the news program.
.TP
prompter\-next: ed
Names the editor to be used on exit from
.I prompter(1)
.PP
The following profile elements are used whenever an mh program
invokes some other program such as
.I file(1)
or
.I ls(1).
The mh profile can be used to select alternate versions of these
programs if the user wishes.  The default values are given in
the examples.
.br
	fileproc: /usr/ucb/file
.br
	installproc: /etc/mh/install-mh
.br
	lproc: /usr/ucb/c
.br
	lsproc: /usr/ucb/ls
.br
	mailproc: /usr/ucb/mail
.br
	prproc: /bin/pr
.br
	scanproc: /usr/ucb/scan
.br
	sendproc: /usr/ucb/send
.br
	showproc: /usr/ucb/c
.TP
	delete-prog: /bin/rm
Normally, 
.I rmm(1),
rather than removing a message in file X will rename the
file to ,X.  At Rand, a program known as the Midnight Skulker
comes around once a day and eliminates files whose names begin
with a comma.  If a user provides a 
.I delete-prog
profile entry, however, the specified program will be used
instead to remove the file.
.SH FILES
$HOME/.mh\(ruprofile
.SH SEE ALS