.TH MHL 1 RAND(DRAFT)
.SH NAME
mhl \- Produce formatted listings of MH messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmhl 
[
\fB\-clear\fR]
[\fB\-noclear\fR]
[\fB\-folder\fR\ folder]
[\fB\-form\fR\ formfile]
[\fB\-length\fR\ length] 
[\fB\-width\fR\ width] 
[\fB\-help\fR] 
[file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mhl 
is a formatted message listing program. It can be used as a
replacement for "c" (the default message lister). As with c, each of
the messages specified as arguments (or stdin) will be output.  If more
than one message file is specified, the user will be prompted prior to
each one, and a <return> or <eot> will begin the output, with <return>
clearing the screen (if appropriate), and <eot> suppressing the screen
clear.  An <interrupt> will abort the current message ouput, prompting
for the next message (if there is one), and a <quit> will terminate the
program (without core dump).
.PP
As in all MH programs, mhl looks for a line "mhl: args" in the user's
profile, and thus allows tailored defaults.  The switches are:
.PP
.ta 1.5i
.br
\-clear	Clear screen each page
.br
\-noclear	Don't clear screen each page
.br
\-folder folder	Use this "folder" name
.br
\-form formfile	Name of the format file
.br
\-length length	Screen length
.br
\-width width	Screen width
.br
\-help	Standard help message
.PP
All of the functions these switches perform are affected or controlled
by information elsewhere.  That is, the format file can specify "clear",
in which case, the command line switches will override.  Also, the
length and width can be specified in the format file, or default to
40x80.  The folder is used in constructing a message name (see special
component "MessageName" below).  If it is not specified in a switch, it
is taken from the environment variable "mhfolder", which show, next,
prev, and pick initialize appropriately.
.PP
If the form file is not specified, it is taken from the file
"mhl.format" in the user's MH directory, and if that file doesn't exist,
it is taken from "/etc/mh/mhl.format". (Same evaluation hierarchy as the
compose form file.)
.PP
Mhl operates in two phases: 1) read and parse the format file, and 2)
process each message (file).  During phase 1, an internal description of
the format is produced as a structured list.  In phase 2, this list is
walked for each message, outputing message information under the format
constraints from the format file.
.PP
The "mhl.format" file contains information controlling screen clearing,
screen size, wraparound control, transparent text, component ordering,
and component formatting.  Also, a list of components to ignore may be
specified, and a couple of "special" components are defined  to  provide
added  functionality.  Message  output will be in the order specified by
the order in the format file.
.PP
Each line of mhl.format has one of the formats:
.PP
	;comment
.br
	:cleartext
.br
	variable[,variable...]
.br
	component:[variable,...]
.PP
A line beginning with a ";"  is  a  comment,  and  is  ignored.  A  line
beginning with a ":" is clear text, and is output exactly as is. (A line
containing only a ":" produces a blank  line  in  the  output.)  A  line
beginning  with  "component:"  defines  the  format  for  the  specified
component, and finally, remaining lines define the global environment.
.PP
For example, the line:
.PP
width=80,length=40,clearscreen,overflowtext=***,overflowoffset=5
.PP
defines the screen size to be 80 columns by 40 rows, specifies that  the
screen  should  be  cleared  prior  to  each  page,  that  the  overflow
indentation is 5, and that overflow text should be flagged with "***".
.PP
Following are all of the current  variables  and  their  argmuments.  If
they  follow  a component, they apply only to that component, otherwise,
their affect is global.  Since the whole format  is  parsed  before  any
output processing, the last global switch setting for a variable applies
to the whole message.
.TP 15
width=#         
Screen width, component width
.TP
overflowtext=t  
Text to use at the beginning of an overflow line
.TP
overflowoffset=# 
Positions to indent overflow lines
.TP
compwidth=#     
Positions to indent component text after first line
.TP
nocomponent     
Don't output "component: " for this component
.TP
uppercase       
Output text of this component in all upper case
.TP
center          
Center component on line (works for one-line components only)
.TP
clearscreen     
Clear the screen (form feed) prior to each page
.TP
leftadjust      
Strip off leading spaces & tabs on each line of text
.TP
compress        
Change newlines in text to spaces
.PP
Where "=#" indicates a number must be specified, and "=t" indicates that
arbitrary  text  up  to  end  of line or "," is required.  The variables
without arguments are ON indicators, with the default in all cases  OFF.
The  variables  "nocomponent",  center,  leftadjust and compress have no
affect globally, and clearscreen only affects the global environment.
.PP
A line of the form:
.PP
ignores=component,...
.PP
specifies a list of components which are never output.
.PP
The component "MessageName" (case is unimportant) will output the actual
message  name  (file  name) preceded by "folder:" if one is specified or
found in the environment.
.PP
The component "Extras" will output all of the components of the  message
which were not matched by explicit components, or included in the ignore
list.  If this component is not specified, an ignore list is not  needed
since all non-specified components will be ignored.
.PP
If "nocomponent" is NOT specified, then the component name will be output
as it appears in the format file.
.PP
The current default format is:
.PP
width=80,length=40,overflowtext=***,overflowoffset=5
.br
ignores=msgid,message-id
.br
Date:leftadjust,offset=40
.br
To:leftadjust
.br
Cc:leftadjust
.br
:
.br
From:leftadjust
.br
Subject:leftadjust
.br
:
.br
extras:leftadjust,nocomponent
.br
:
.br
body:nocomponent
.SH FILES
.SH SEE ALSO
c(1),