.TH MHPATH 1 RAND
.SH NAME
mhpath \- print full pathnames of MH messages and folders
.SH SYNOPSIS
mhpath \%[+folder] \%[msgs] \%[\-help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIMhpath\fR expands and sorts the message list \%[msgs] and writes
the full pathnames of the messages to the standard output
separated by newlines.

If no ``msgs'' are specified, \fImhpath\fR outputs the folder (directory)
pathname (current folder default).

Contrasted with other MH commands, a message argument to \fImhpath\fR
may often be intended for \fIwriting\fR.
Because of this: 1) the name
"new" has been added to \fImhpath\fR's list of reserved message names
(the others are first, last, prev, next, cur, all).
New is last + 1 (where last is 0 in a messageless folder).
New may not be used as part of a message range.
2) Within a message list,
the following designations may refer to messages that do not exist:
a single numeric message name,
the single message name cur, and (obviously) the single message name new.
All other message designations must refer to at least one existing message.
3) An empty folder is not in itself an error.

Message numbers greater than 999 as part of a range designation
are replaced with 999.  Explicit single message numbers greater
than 999, or message number 0 in any context, are errors.

Examples: The current folder foo contains messages 3 5 6.
Cur is 4.
.nf
\    % mhpath
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo

\    % mhpath all
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/3
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/5
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/6

\    % mhpath 1000
\    Message 1000 out of range 1-999

\    % mhpath 1-1001
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/3
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/5
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/6

\    % mhpath new
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/7

\    % mhpath last new
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/6
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/7

\    % mhpath last-new
\    Bad message list "last-new".

\    % mhpath cur
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/4

\    % mhpath 1-2
\    No messages in range "1-2".

\    % mhpath first:2
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/3
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/5

\    % mhpath 1 2
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/1
\    /r/phyl/Mail/foo/2

\    % mhpath 0
\    Bad message list "0".

\    % mhpath 0-last
\    Bad message list "0-last".

\    --Backquoted Operations--

\    % cd `mhpath +inbox`

     From "e":
\    <CMD> run cat `mhpath cur`

.fi
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
$HOME/\*.mh\(ruprofile	The user profile
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
Path:	To determine the user's MH directory
.br
Current-Folder:	To find the default current folder
.SH DEFAULTS
`+folder' defaults to current
.br
`msgs' defaults to NULL
.SH CONTEXT
The folder and the current message are unaffected.
.SH BUGS
Like all MH commands, \fImhpath\fR expands and sorts \%[msgs].
So don't expect
.br
\        mv `mhpath 501 500`
.br
to move 501 to 500.
Quite the reverse.  But
.br
\        mv `mhpath 501` `mhpath 500`
.br
will do the trick.

Out of range message 0 is treated far more severely than large out of
range message numbers.
