.TH REPL 1 RAND
.SH NAME
repl \- reply to a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrepl\fR \%[+folder] \%[msg] \%[\fB\-editor\fR\ editor]
\%[\fB\-inplace\fR] \%[\fB\-annotate\fR]
\%[\fB\-help\fR] \%[\fB\-noinplace\fR]
\%[\fB\-noannotate\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIRepl\fR aids a user in producing a reply to an existing
message.
In its simplest form (with no arguments), it will set up
a message-form skeleton in reply to the current message in the
current folder, invoke the editor, and send the composed
message if so directed.
The composed message is constructed as
follows:

.nf
.in 1i
To: <Reply-To> or <From>
cc: <cc>, <To>
Subject: Re: <Subject>
In-reply-to: Your message of <Date>
.ti +\w'In-reply-to: 'u
<Message-Id>
.in .5i
.fi

where field names enclosed in angle brackets (< >) indicate the
contents of the named field from the message to which the reply
is being made.
Once the skeleton is constructed, an editor is
invoked (as in \fIcomp\fR, \fIdist\fR, and \fIforw\fR).
While in the editor,
the message being replied to is available through a link named
``@''.

.B NOTE:
.I repl
invokes the editor with two file arguments.
The second is the filename of the message being
replied to, and is intended
to be used as an `alternate' file within the editor.
If the editor used doesn't have this feature, it must
ignore the extra file argument and edit the first
file argument.

As in \fIcomp\fR, \fIdist\fR, and \fIforw\fR, the user will be queried
before the message is sent.
If `\-annotate' is
specified, the replied-to message will be annotated with the
single line

.ti +.5i
Replied: \*(<<Date\*(>>.

The command
``comp \-use'' may be used to pick up interrupted editing, as in
\fIdist\fR and \fIforw\fR; the `\-inplace' switch annotates the message in place,
so that all folders with links to it will see the annotation.

See \fIcomp(1)\fR for a description of the `\-editor' switch and for options
upon exiting from the editor.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
$HOME/\*.mh\(ruprofile	The user profile
.br
<mh-dir>/draft	The constructed message file
.br
/usr/bin/send	To send the composed message
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
Path:	To determine the user's MH directory
.br
Editor:	To override the default editor
.br
Current-Folder:	To find the default current folder
.SH DEFAULTS
`+folder' defaults to current
.br
`msgs' defaults to cur
.br
`\-editor' defaults to /bin/ned
.br
`\-noannotate'
.br
`\-noinplace'
.SH SEE ALSO
comp(1),dist(1), forw(1)
.SH CONTEXT
If a `+folder' is specified, it will become the current
folder, and the current message will be set to the replied-to
message.
.sp 2
