.TH SCAN 1 RAND
.SH NAME
scan \- produce a one-line-per-message scan listing
.SH SYNOPSIS
scan \%[+folder] \%[msgs] \%[\-f\&f] \%[\-header] \%[\-help]
\%[\-nof\&f] \%[\-noheader] \%[\-time] \%[\-notime] \%[\-numdate] \%[\-nonumdate]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIScan\fR produces a one-line-per-message listing of the specified
messages.
Each \fIscan\fR line contains the message number (name),
the date, the ``From'' field, the \*(lqSubject'' field, and, if room
allows, some of the body of the message.
For example:

.nf
.ta .5i 1.2i 2.6i
 #	Date	  From	Subject\ \ \ \ \[\*(<<Body]
15+	7/\05	dcrocker	nned  <<Last week I asked some of
16\ \-	7/\05	dcrocker	message id format  <<I recommend
18	7/\06	Obrien	Re: Exit status from mkdir
19	7/\07	Obrien	"scan" listing format in MH
20   7/\07   phyl \    \   \  Short  <<message >>
.re
.fi

The `+' on message 15 indicates that it is the current message.
The `\-' on message 16 indicates that it has been
replied to, as indicated by a ``Replied:'' component produced by
an `\-annotate' switch to the \fIrepl\fR command.

If there is sufficient room left on the \fIscan\fR line after the
subject, the line will be filled with text from the body,
preceded by <<, and terminated by >> if the body is sufficiently short.
\fIScan\fR actually reads each of the specified
messages and parses them to extract the desired fields.
During parsing, appropriate error messages will be produced if
there are format errors in any of the messages.

The `\-header' switch produces a header line prior to the \fIscan\fR
listing, and the `\-f\&f' switch will cause a form feed to be
output at the end of the \fIscan\fR listing.
.PP
Example:

The command:  (scan -ff -header; show all -pr -f) | print

produces a scan listing of the current folder, followed by a form feed,
followed by a formatted listing of all messages in the folder, one per
page.  Omitting "-pr -f" will cause the messages to be concatenated,
separated by a one-line header and two blank lines.

If the `\-time' switch is selected, the time of the message is shown
after the date.
If the `\-numdate' switch is selected,
the date (and time if `\-time' is selected) of the message
is shown as one long number made up of year, month, day, hour, minute.
This is useful for sorting messages in a folder.
.PP
Example:

162+ 8202192032 Dave-Yost         mh distrib  <<is almost done.

.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
$HOME/\*.mh\(ruprofile	The user profile
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
Path:	To determine the user's MH directory
.br
Current-Folder:	To find the default current folder
.SH SEE ALSO
inc(1), show(1)
.SH DEFAULTS
.br
`+folder' defaults to current
.br
`msgs' defaults to all
.br
`\-nof\&f'
.br
`\-noheader'
.br
`\-notime'
.br
`\-nonumdate'
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is given, it will become current.
The current
message is unaffected.
.SH BUGS
The `\-numdate' option ignores timezones.
