.TH SHOW 1 RAND
.SH NAME
show \- show (list) messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
show \%[+folder] \%[msgs] \%[\-format] \%[\-noformat] \%[\-pr] \%[\-nopr] \%[\-draft] \%[\-help]
\%[\fIc\fR\ or\ \fIpr\fR\ switches]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIShow\fR lists each of the specified messages to the standard
output (typically, the terminal).
The messages are listed exactly
as they are, with no reformatting.
A program named by the \fBshowproc\fR profile component is
invoked to do the listing, and any switches not recognized by
\fIshow\fR are passed along to that program.  The default
program is known as \fIc\fR (also known as \fIl\fR).
The mh command \fBmhl\fR can be used as a \fBshowproc\fR
to show messages in a more uniform format.  See mhl(1).
If the `-noformat' option is specified, `/bin/cat' is used
instead of \fBshowproc\fR.
The opposite of this is `-format', which is the default.

If no ``msgs'' are specified, the current message is used.
If
more than one message is specified, \fIc\fR will prompt for a
<return> prior to listing each message.

\fIc\fR will list each message, a page at a time.
When the end of
page is reached, \fIc\fR will ring the bell and wait for a <RETURN>
or <CTRL-D>.
If a <return> is entered, \fIc\fR will clear the
screen before listing the next page, whereas <CTRL-D> will not.
The switches to \fIc\fR are
`\-p#' to indicate the page length in lines, and `\-w#' to
indicate the width of the page in characters.

If the standard output is not a terminal, no queries are made,
and each file is listed with a one-line header and two lines of
separation.

If `\-pr' is specified, then \fIpr\fR(I) will be invoked rather than
\fIc\fR, and the switches (other than `\-draft') will be passed
along.
``Show \-draft'' will list the file <mh-dir>/draft if it
exists.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.4i
$HOME/\*.mh\(ruprofile	The user profile
.br
/usr/ucb/c	Screen-at-a-time list program
.br
/bin/pr	\fIpr\fR(I)
.SH PROFILE COMPONENTS
Path:	To determine the user's MH directory
.br
Current-Folder:	To find the default current folder
.br
showproc:	Program to show message
.br
prproc:		Program to use for ``pr''
.SH SEE ALSO
next(1), prev(1), c(1), mhl(1)
.SH DEFAULTS
`+folder' defaults to current
.br
`msgs' defaults to cur
.br
`\-format'
.br
`\-nopr'
.SH CONTEXT
If a folder is given, it will become the current message.
The last message
listed will become the current message.
